


(Demi-Official Letter)


















































(List of Contents)


Foreword
Demi-Official Letter	
Administrative Reforms, 1973
Annual Reports of Government Bodies
Authorisation For Publication of Official Documents
Book reading (Promotion of Book Culture)
Buddhist Relics
Budgetary Matters
Budgetary Matters
Capacity Building for Public Service Delivery to Meet	Contemporary Challenges---Important Points of the Recommendations of the Wafaqi Mohtasib Committee
Condolence Letters
Conference
Conference Paper: Presentation or Talk
Congratulatory Letters
Constituency of the Member of National Assembly:					
(a) Duties and Responsibilities of the MNAs,
(b) Importance of the letters received by the Prime Minister/Minister from the Members of the Parliament and the Public.
Council of Common Interest
Covering Letter
Forwarding Letter
Letter of Transmittal
Deteriorating condition of English in Pakistan
Exhibition
Federal Tax Ombudsman
Government Servants (Conduct) Rules, 1964
Gratitude (Gratefulness, Thankfulness, Thanks)
Invitation for Official Visit
Letters from the Public (Grievances, Proposals, Request for Meeting, Views etc.)
Letter of Acknowledgement at High Level
Letters of Appreciation to Government Servants
Letters of Appreciation from the President, the Prime Minister and the Ministers to Scientists, Scouts, Students, Supporters, Teachers and Welfare Organizations 
Management Services Wing (Establishment Division)
Memorandum of understanding
National Day Celebrations
National Seerat Conference
Official Language of Pakistan
Pension System for Federal Government Employees
Performance Evaluation Report
Police Reforms
Posting/Transfer
Prisons----Wafaqi Mohtasib's Report on Prisoners with Special Reference to Children and Women Prisoners
Promotion of Government Servants
Public Procurement
Public Procurement System in the Government----Recommendations of the Federal Mohtasib  Committee
Reminder (Communication)
Rules of Business, 1973
State Bank of Pakistan
State Bank of Pakistan
Training of Government Servants
Telephone Policy
Unclassified Official Records, Access to
Visits Abroad
Wafaqi Mohtasib
Bibliography



























Chapter No 1
Demi-Official Letter 
List of Contents
Demi-Official Letter
Forms of Communication
Use of Demi-Official Letter
Components of Demi-Official Letter
First Sentence in a Demi-Official Letter
Demi- Official Letter 
Forms of Communication	



Use of Demi-Official Letter



Components of the Demi-Official Letter
(Salutation)
	
(Dear Mr)                    									
(Text)


(Subscription)
	
	
Best Regards/Wishes




First Sentence in a Demi-Official Letter
Please refer to your d.o.letter No M/23/1/A regarding.
I am enclosing herewith a copy of my previous letter No 1/23/A dated 11 feb 1990 addressed to you.
Would you kindly refer to the marginally noted correspondence (copies thereof are enclosed for ready reference) and dozens of reminders with regard to 
kindly refer to your d.o. letter No M/1/23/A dated 23 March 1990 addressed to Joint secretary (Admn) of this Ministry.
You will kindly recal that
Please refer to the correspondence resting with this Division's Office Memorandum No.2 dated 23-03-1990 and subsequent reminders of even numbers dated 10-03-1990 and  15-03-0990 regarding
Will you please refer to your d.o. letter No m/23/1/A dated.25-03-1990 regarding.
In continuation of this office letter No M/23/1/A dated 25-03-1990 it s stated that
In response to your letter  No M/23/1/A dated 25-03-1990 it is pointed out that
Please refer to your letter No M/23/1/A dated.25-03-1990 addressed to Secretary Education Division on the subject noted above. It is stated that
Please refer to your letter cited above and intimate the latest position regarding 
I shall be glad to be informed that
With reference to your d.o. letter No M/23/1/A dated 10-03-1990 addressed to Secretary, Election Commission of Pakistan, you will kindly recall that
14. Please refer to the enclosed letter dated 10-03-1990 alongwith its enclosures received from the Cabinet Secretary regarding
Kindly refer to our letter of which I enclose a copy in case you did not receive it earlier.
Kindly refer to the instructions contained in paras No.2to4of this Division's O.M. No 3 dated 30-03-1990 on  the subject noted above
Please refer to para  4 of the Finance Division's O.M. No 3 dated 25-03-1990 circulated under this office endorsement No 2 dated 10-03-1990 regarding
This refers to your frequent inquiries regarding prescribed duties of assistants in the Federal Secretariat.
Please refer to the enclosed letter dated 25-03-1990 (received on 30-03-1990) alongwith its enclosures received from M/S for the refund of security.
I am enclosing herewith a copy of my letter No M/23/1/A dated 30-03-1990 addressed to you.
Please refer to the enclosed instructions issued by the Cabinet Division regarding level of the officer who signs the communication addressed to the Prime Minister's Secretariat (Public)
Thank you very much for 
I am really grateful for
Many thanks for your letter dated 30-03-1990
I am in receipt of your d.o. letter No.M/23/1/A dated.30-03-1990 addressed to the،with a copy to me regarding.
I wish to convey to you my sincere thanks for you
In response to your letter of date 30-03-1990
This letter is in continuation of my earlier d.o. letter of 30-03-1990 where in
I would like to express my appreciation for cooperation
I am writing to thank you for cooperation
I am writing on behalf of the JS to thank you for your recent letter.
The JS has asked me to thank you for your letter dated 30-03-1990
Please accept my profound gratitude for cooperation
I am glad to inform you that
It is with deep gratitude that I received your letter of appreciation
I Personally feel honoured and grateful to you for cooperation
Administrative Reforms 1973
List of Contents
Introductory Note												    
Specimen English												   
Letter dated 21st August, 1973 from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary, Establishment Division to the all Federal Secretaries
Specimen English												   
Letter dated 10th November, 197 3from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary, Establishment Division to all  the Cheif Secretaries to the Provincial Governments and Secretaries to the Federal Government
Introductory Note
(Gradation list of officers of all Pakistan unified grades)				    
Specimen English												    
Letter dated 26th November, 197 3from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary, Establishment Division to all  the Cheif Secretaries to the Provincial Governments and Secretaries to the Federal Government
Specimen English
Letter dated 7th November, 197 3from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary, Establishment Division to all  the Cheif Secretaries to the Provincial Governments and Secretaries to the Federal Government
Introductory Note  (Lateral Entry System)							 
Specimen English
Letter dated 27th October, 197 3from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary, Establishment Division to all  the Cheif Secretaries to the Provincial Governments and Secretaries to the Federal Government
Introductory Note  
(Provincial/Regional Quota for Recruitment to the Civil Posts under the Federal Goverment)
Specimen English
Letter dated 18th October, 197 3from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary, Establishment Division to all  the  Secretaries to the  Fedral Government
Introductory Note  (Service Associations)
Specimen English												    
Letter dated 3rd November, 197 3from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary, Establishment Division to the all Secretaries to the Federal Government
Administrative Reforms 1973



(Unified Grading Structure)


(Abolition of all "Classes")



(Discontinuation of the use of 'Service' labels)

(Entitement to promotions to the higher posts)





(Correct grading of the post)


 (National pay scale)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Occupational Groups/Services)















Better opportunities for promotion on the basis of professionalism


Abolition of the system of reserved posts

Horizontal mobility

Move over



Accelerated promotion

Common Training Programme



Specialised Training Programme

Disciplinary action against civil servants

Establishment of service tribunals

Specimen English 
(Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad,
 Secretary Establishment Division to all Secretaries to the Government of Pakistan)
From: Mr. Vaqar Ahmad,	 Cabinet Secretariat
Secretary. (Establishment Division) Government of Pakistan
No. 1/1/73-A. R. C. Rawalpindi, the 21st August, 1973.
My dear Secretary,
I enclose a copy of the Prime Minister's announcement regarding Administrative Reforms. 
As you will see from this, the Government have taken the following decisions:
(a) All the services and cadres would be merged into of single Unified Grading Structure with equality of opportunity for all who enter the service at any stage based on the required professional and specialised competence necessary for each job. 
(b) All ' classes ' among Government servants would be abolished and replaced by a single unified grading structure, a peon or equivalent at the bottom, a Secretary or Departmental Head at the top. 
The existing classification of dividing the services into Class I to Class IV would no longer operate.
The road upwards to the very top to be open to all on merit and required educational and professional qualifications. 
(c) The use of ' service ' labels would be discontinued forthwith. 
(d) The Unified Structure would, be designed to provide for entitlement to promotions to the higher posts throughout the range of public service; for horizontal movement from one cadre to another including the movement of technical personnel to the cadre of general management carrying posts of an executive nature ; there would also be scope for out of turn promotion to the exceptionally meritorious officers. 
(e) The correct grading of each post would be determined by job evaluation, job description, professionalism and specialization. 
(f) With the merger of all classes and services into a single Unified Grading Structure, the various functional and professional services will become branches of a single service. 
(g) There would be provision that Government may take talented officers from the private sector such as banking, insurance, industry and trade as well as from other professions for jobs at the appropriate levels in the Central and Provincial Secretariats and Departments as well as Government sponsored, corporations, autonomous and semi-autonomous bodies. 
2. These orders are being put into operation with immediate effect. 
Each post would be appropriately graded taking into account the duties and responsibilities attached to the post. 
This would involve a detailed exercise. It has been decided that this exercise will be done by the Establishment Division in consultation with the Ministries and other Organizations and the Provincial Governments. 
For this purpose a Special Cell has been created in the Establishment Division called the Administrative Reforms Cell. 
The Establishment Secretary will be incharge of this Cell and he will be assisted by an officer of the rank of Joint Secretary. 
The Joint Secretary will be visiting the Ministries and Provinces for the Implementation of Government decisions and will hold discussions at the appropriate levels, if necessary. 
Before finalizing, the Establishment Secretary will hold discussions with the Secretaries of the Ministries concerned. 
Thereafter orders of the Prime Minister will be obtained wherever necessary. 
For Services and Cadres for which the Establishment Division is responsible, necessary action will be initiated by the Establishment Division.
3.	As there will be one Unified Cadre for posts included in All Pakistan Services.
The CSP Composition and Cadre Rules have been suitably amended 
A copy of the amended Rules is attached. 
4. As under the new Constitution, Government is committed to enact a law to govern the terms and conditions of Government servants, an Ordinance has been issued by the President on this subject. 
A copy of the Ordinance is also attached. 
5. The present Efficiency and Disciplinary Rules are extremely cumbersome and dilatory in their operation.
These Rules have also been revised on the recommendations of the Administrative Reforms Committee. 
A copy of the Revised Rules which have been issued is also attached. 
6. It is provided in the Constitution that suitable laws will be issued on the functions of the Public Service Commission. An Ordinance to constitute the Federal Public Service Commission has been issued. 
7. As Government attaches highest importance to the Administrative Reforms.
It is requested that references received from the Special Cell in the Establishment Division may be accorded the highest priority. 
Yours sincerely,
(VAQAR AHMAD)
Encls: As above 
All Secretaries to the Government of Pakistan.
Cabenet Secrtery (21 August 1973, 10 July 1977)
Specimen English 
(Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary Establishment Division to all the Secretaries to the Federal Government/ all the Chief Secretaries to the Provincial Government)
From: Mr. Vaqar Ahmad	Cabinet Secretariat
Secretary, (Establishment Division) Government of Pakistan
No. 1/1/73-A. R. C.Rawalpindi, November 10, 1973.
My dear Secretary,
A copy of the Civil Servants (Change in Nomenclature of Services and Abolition of Classes) Rules, 1973, with some spare copies, is enclosed for your information and use in your Ministry/Division. 
These rules have been published in the Gazette of Pakistan dated 3rd November, 1973. 
A copy of the All Pakistan Civil Servants (Change in Nomenclature) Rules, 1973, was forwarded to all Ministries/Divisions and the Provincial Governments with Establishment Division Office Memorandum No. 1/ 1/ 73-ARC, dated 10th October, 1973.
2. The Civil Servants (Change in Nomenclature of Services and Abolition of Classes) Rules, 1973, give formal effect to the abolition of classes announced by the Prime Minister on 20th August, 1973. 
The classification of posts into gazetted and non-gazetted has also been abolished. 
However, the practice of notifying all appointments to Grade 16 and above in the Gazette will continue to be followed.
3. The above rules also provide that all Federal Services and posts, other than those included in All-Pakistan Unified Grades, shall be called Federal Unified Grades.
There shall thus be three Unified Grades namely
(1) All Pakistan Unified Grades.
(2) Federal Unified Grades.
(3) Provincial Unified Grades.
The Provincial Governments are being requested to issue similar orders to designate the services and posts under them as Provincial Unified Grades.
4. Attention in particular is invited to rule  8of the Civil Servants (Change in Nomenclature of Services and Abolition of Classes) Rules, 1973 whereby all reservations of posts for purposes of appointment, promotion or transfer in favour of persons belonging to a particular service or cadre or a particular post have been abolished.
The intention of this rule is that no individual Government servant should claim promotion or appointment to a particular post as a matter of right on the basis of provision in existing recruitment rules or other structions. 
Action is in hand to frame fresh rules in the light of Administrative Reforms. 
For example, certain rules for posts in All Pakistan. Unified Grades have already been issued in SRO 123 8(I)/7 3dated 2Ist August, 1973. 
In other cases, discussions are in progress with Ministries and Divisions concerned. 
However, in order not to create a vacuum, the existing quotas for promotion and direct recruitment for various posts may continue to be observed until further orders.
Yours sincerely,
VAQAR AHMAD
All Secretaries 
To Federal Government
Copy to the Chief Secretaries to the Provincial Governments. 
It is requested that similar action may be taken in regard to services and posts under the Provincial Governments. 
VAQAR AHMAD
Gradation List 



Specimen English 
(Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary Establishment Division to the Chief Secretaries to the Provincial Governments and all Secretaries to the Federal Government)
From: Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Cabinet Secretariat
Secretary. (Establishment Division) Government of Pakistan
No. 5/I/73-ARC	  Rawalpindi, the 7th September, 1973.
My dear,
The Prime Minister in his broadcast to the Nation on the 20th August, 1973, announced the merger of all Services and Cadres into a Unified service. 
2. A gradation list of officers of All-Pakistan Unified Grades in the rank of Secretary General, Secretary, Additional Secretary, and Joint Secretary, including the Listed Post holders in these grades, has been prepared.
Copies of the list are enclosed which may please be circulated to the officers concerned. 
Seniority in each grade has been reckoned from the date of appointment to the grade. 
In case there are any omissions or discrepancies, these may please be communicated by the 3oth September, 1973, for rectification.
3. A similar gradation list covering posts in the grade of Deputy Secretary under the Federal Government and Deputy Commissioners under the Provincial Governments is being compiled. 
You are requested to forward the data in respect of officers in these grades serving under the Provincial Governments by 21st September, 1973. 
Yours Sincerely,
(VAQAR AHMAD)
The Chief Secretaries 
To the Provincial Governments. 
Copy for information and necessary action to all Secretaries to the Federal Government. 
(VAQAR AHMAD)
Secretary
Specimen English 
(Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary Establishment Division To  all the Chief Secretaries to the Provincial Government and Secretaries to the Federal Government)
From: Mr. Vaqar Ahmad Cabinet Secretariat
Secretary,(Establishment Division) Government of Pakistan.
No. 2/2/73-A.VI.Rawalpindi, November 26, 1973.
My dear, 
Kindly refer to my d. o. letter No. 5/1/73-ARC dated the 7th September, 1973, with which the Gradation List of officers of All-Pakistan Unified Grades in Grade 20 and above was circulated. 
2. The Gradation List of officers of All-Pakistan Unified Grades in Grade 19 has now been prepared.
Copies of the list are enclosed which may please be circulated to the officers concerned.
 The basis on which the seniority has been allowed to the officers mentioned in the list is indicated in the Foreword.
In case there be any omissions or discrepancies, these may please be communicated to Establishment Division by the 31st December, 1973, for rectification.
Yours sincerely,
(Vaqar Ahmad)
Encl: Foreword of the Gradation List
All the Chief Secretaries to the Provincial Governments
and Secretaries to the Federal Government.
Lateral Entry System 









Specimen English 
(Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad,Establishment Secteray to all the Secretaries in the Federal Government and Chief Secretaries to the Provincial Governments
From: Mr. Vaqar Ahmad	Cabinet Secretariat
Secretary,(Establishment Division)
Government of Pakistan
No. 5/1/73-R.III.Rawalpindi, October 27, 1973.
My dear Secretary,
A copy of a Press Note and advertisement calling for applications for the posts of Deputy Secretary and Joint Secretary, and equivalent, under the Federal Government and in autonomous organisations, is enclosed for information. 
All Government servants whether serving under the Federal Government or the Provincial Governments may be permitted to send their applications. 
2. 1 may point out that any post falling vacant in the grade of Joint Secretary and equivalent and Deputy Secretary and equivalent will be earmarked for candidates selected on the above basis. 
If in the exigencies of service, a post is required to be filled by a person who has not been selected through this process, his appointment would be treated as provisional. 
And such a person will have to take the written test and qualify for the post in competition with others before his appointment is regularised. 
If he fails to be selected, he will be reverted. 
3. The above position may kindly be brought to the notice of all concerned as when similar call for applications was made in November, 1972, some officers did not apply under the impression that they would be considered for promotion in the normal course. 
Now that the Services have been abolished and there is no reservation in favour of any group or category of Government servants, all of them will have to apply under this procedure if they want to be considered for promotion. 
Yours sincerely,
(Vaqar Ahmad)
All Secretaries to the Federal Government  And Chief Secretaries to Provincial Governments. 
Provincial/Regional Quota for Recruitment to the Civil Posts under the Federal Government














Contract Appointment


10% Quota for Employment of Women
	









0.5% Quota for Employment of Minorities (Non-Muslims)


2% Quota for Disabled Persons in Federal Government Services



Specimen English 
(Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad,Secteray Establishment Division To all the Secretaries to the Federal Government
From: Mr. Vaqar Ahmad		Cabinet Secretariat
Secretary,(Establishment Division) Government of Pakistan.
No. 8/9/72-TR-V.Rawalpindi, October 18, 1973.
Subject:    Provincial/Regional quotas for recruitment to posts in autonomous/semi-autonomous bodies
My dear Secretary,
	Instructions have already been issued in Establishment Division Office Memorandum No.F-8/9-7 2TR-V dated 29th September,1973(copy enclosed) that the merit and provincial/regional quotas applicable to civil servants under the Federal Government shall apply also to posts in Grade 17and above in all autonomous/semi-autonomous bodies which are administratively controlled by the Federal Government.
In order to assess the present position with regard to representation of various provinces and regions in these autonomous/semi-autonomous bodies, it is requested that information may be collected urgently on the enclosed Proforma and furnished to Establishment Division.
2. Not included in the book.
3. The above instruction my please be collected and furnished to the Establishment Division by 15th September 197 3at the latest in duplicate, and separately in respect of each autonomous/semi-autonomous body under the administrative control of your Ministry.
Yours Sincerely,
(Vaqar Ahmad)
All Secretaries to the Federal Government.

Service Associations


Membership of the Service Association































Specimen English
(Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad,Secteray Establishment Division To all the Secretaries
From: Mr.Vaqar Ahmad Cabinet Secretariat
Secretary. (Establishment Division) Government of Pakistan
D.O. No. 16/17/73-F.I.Rawalpindi, the 3rd November 1973.
My dear Secretary,
Following the Prime Minister's announcement dated the 2oth August, 197 3introducing Administrative Reforms, all Services have been abolished and replaced by a unified structure of Grades. 
Formal notification to this effect has also been issued vide S.R.O. 130 7(I)/73, dated 14th September, 197 3and S.R.O. No. 153 0(I)/73, dated 3rd November, 1973. 
Consequently all Service Associations representing Services existing prior to 20th August, 1973, have ceased to exist. 
These associations should therefore be wound up immediately, if not already done. 
No resolution passed or action taken in the name of these associations will be considered valid. 
2. In regard to the formation of the Employees' Association in the light of the Adminisrtative Reforms, instructions are being formulated and will be issued in due course. 
Thereafter Government servants may form fresh associations under those instructions and apply for recognition. 
Yours Sincerely,
(Vaqar Ahmad).
All Secretaries to the Federal Government.
Chapter No 3
Annual Reports of the Public Bodies 
List of Contents
Introductory Note
a. Annual Reports of the Public Bodies
b. Annual Reort of the Federal Public Service Commission
Specimen English
Letter from the Chairman FPSC to the President (Annual Report 2015)
Specimen English	
Letter from Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman to the President of Pakistan (Annual Report 2014)
Specimen English	
Letter from Mr. Syed Tahir Shahbaz, Federal Ombudsman to the President of Pakistan  (Annual Report 2015)
Specimen English
Letter from Mr. Abdul Rauf Chaudhary, Federal Tax Ombudsman to the President Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Specimen English
Letter from Mr. Ishrat Husain,Governor, State Bank of Pakistan to Dr. Salman Shah, Advisor to the Prime Minister on Finance 
Annual Report
Annual Reports of the Public Bodies
Year Book
	





Annual Reports to be Presented to the President
	



Annual Reports of the Autonomous/Semi-Autonomous Bodies/ Corporations

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accountability))
	



Contents of the Annual Report
	













Annual Return



Annual Report of the Federal Public Service Commission





Specimn English
D.O. Letter from the Mr. Naveed Akram Cheema, Chairman Federal Public Service Commission to Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,the President, Islamic Republic of Pakistan
(Annual Report 2015)
No.99/1/1DS (CP-1) Islamabad,dated 15 Sep 1977 
Naveed Akram Cheema,
Chairman,
Tel.0519205746
Mr. President,
Pursuant to section  9of the FPSC Ordinance, 1977, the Annual Report of the Federal Public Service Commission for 2015 is presented to the President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. 
This report gives an account of the functional performance of the Commission for the period 1st January through 31st December 2015. 
1. Over the last 68years, since the Federal Public Service Commission was founded, its composition, size and processes have changed, but its overall purpose has remained the same. 
The Commission is chartered to recruit through fair and open competitive process, a broad range of human resources to serve the Government and the people of Pakistan, effectively and efficiently.
3. For this purpose, the FPSC develops examination modules, conducts tests and examinations for recruitment of persons to all Pakistan Services, the civil services of the Federation and civil posts in connection with the affairs of the Federation in basic pay scales 16and above and also holds examinations for promotion for such posts as the Federal Government may, from time to time, specify.
Complaints/review petitions of the aggrieved candidates, if any, are also entertained and addressed. 
The Commission carries out all recruitments on the principles enshrined in Article 27of the Constitution and the reservation of seats prescribed by the Government from time to time. 
4. In this work, the Commission acts as an independent regulator. 
It works with Ministries/ Divisions/ Departments to renovate and professionalize recruitment processes, both as regulator and in support of their work. 
The statutory responsibilities of the Commission require it to advise the President on matters relating to qualifications and methods of recruitment for BS-16and above. 
As the Commission processes recruitment for these posts within various Ministries/Divisions/Departments, sometimes, those responsibilities require it to stand up and speak up as an independent regulator. 
This report underscores the challenges faced by the Commission in this regard. 
The report not only identifies challenges related to the recruitment but also captures the reform initiatives. 
5. Like each year, goals and targets were set for Year 2015. 
Some of the key goals and targets were to improve selection criteria, critically examine, review and timeline the procedures and processes for recruitment, enhance usage of information technology and to reduce delays. 
The year's biggest achievement has, perhaps, been the 100% online application invitation and processing. 
As has been explained in the report until last year data entry and subsequent proof reading consumed  2to3 months to process; and therefore the need for an automated system for processing the applications was felt, finally achieved this year. 
It is an important development for the Commission which will be of great benefit both for the Commission as well the aspirants.
6. Another important milestone was reforms in CSS Competitive Examination System. 
The Commission conducted an extensive and intensive round of discussions with various stakeholders including HEC designated panel of subject specialists for revision of syllabi for the CSS competitive examination. 
The scheme and syllabi was last revised in 1981. 
In view of the fast changing environment and the consequent challenges, the need to reform was strongly felt. 
The new scheme for competitive examination 2016and onwards included six new subjects Anthropology, Criminology, Environmental Sciences, Gender Studies, Governance & Public Policy, Town Planning & Urban Management and revision of marks of optional subjects and re-grouping of optional subjects to provide level playing field to all candidates. 
7. In a view to bring qualitative improvement in general (direct) recruitment for all posts in BS-1 6and above in various Ministries/Divisions/Departments and to reform the ex-cadre service, the selection process was further improved through revision of syllabi and test schemes. 
It was meant to encourage the candidates to equip themselves with the required skills as well as knowledge and make the selection more competitive.
Test schemes and syllabi for 26 8recruitment cases for selection against 186 4posts in BS-16 to BS-2 0were designed in 2015. 
It is worth mentioning that over 68194 0applications were processed in one year against the aforementioned posts.
8. These highlights reflect a continuing increase in core workload across the board. 
Our Members have been involved in recruitment/ selection/ interview/ review petitions of the candidates against various posts. 
The Commission processed cases of recruitment against 3830ex-cadre posts.
Including advertised in 2015and carry forward cases from previous years. 
In 2015, 147cases were finalized for 67 5posts. 
The Commission interviewed 228 8candidates and made recommendations against 57 5posts in BS-16to BS-20under general recruitment. 
Nominations were also made against 23 3posts under CSS CE 201 4in the year 2015.
9. In this report, we also record the range of additional activities undertaken in support of improving the selection process as indicated in Chapters  5and 6.(Annual Report)
10. In Competitive Examination, we oversee directly and focus on the selection processes. 
During the year, we continued to gather data on the diversity of applications for posts at every level for statistical analysis and referencing. 
Under CSS CE 2014, applications to post ratio was 78.
Only 2.8 6percent of the candidates, who appeared, finally qualified. 
Out of 37 7finally qualified candidates, 69% were from Punjab, 10% from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 9% from Sindh Rural, 5% from Sindh Urban, 3% from Balochistan, 2% from GB/FATA and 2% from AJK. 
Out of 31 5vacancies, allocations against 233(14 4male and 8 9female) posts/vacancies were made by the Commission. 
The allocation against 8 2vacancies could not be made due to non-availability of qualified candidates from the respective quotas.
11. Similarly, 22,41 2candidates applied for the Competitive Examination (CE) 201 5but only 1217 6candidates appeared in the examination. 
The result of written part was announced on 16.10.2015 and 379 or 3.11% of total candidates qualified the written examination. 
Only 3.02 percent of the candidates who appeared in the examination finally qualified the examination.
Applications to post ratio was 67. 
The Establishment Division intimated 333vacancies to be filled through CSS Competitive Examination 2015۰ 
which were accordingly distributed amongst Merit, Provincial / Regional quotas, Women quota (10%) and Minorities quota (5%). 
Out of 333 vacancies, allocations against 23 8(13 2male or 55% and 106 females or 45%) posts/ vacancies were made by the Commission. 
The allocation against 9 5vacancies could not be made due to non-availability of qualified candidates from the respective quotas. 
12. Final Passing Out Examinations (FPOE) for 1 2services/groups and examinations for cadre and non-cadre posts were also held during 2015. 
13. This data guided the Commission to understand better both what was happening as well as suggesting why it was happening. 
The report also suggests trends and contains some analysis of average age of appearing candidates in CSS, male/female ratio among successful candidates, popular choice and performance in various subjects/disciplines, comparative performance of the candidates who pass out from private, Missionary schools and Government institutions and reserved quota for the disabled and Minorities and so on. 
The analysis helps to ensure that the problems are clearly understood, and therefore right recommendations are made and appropriate action is taken. 
14. In the previous years, comparative analysis based on the data of CSS results, feedback of the examiners of the Competitive Examination and Final Passing out Examinations, assessment of the candidates during the interviews/viva voce by the Commission and the impact on the civil service landscape also forms part of the report
Observations/ Findings/ Recommendations
15. The Commission continues to enjoy the trust and confidence of the general public in terms of competitive and merit based selection. Following are some of the observations/ findings/recommendations which need immediate attention of the Government.
 Promoting diversity in Civil Service
16. Civil Service needs a variety of expertise and backgrounds to help solve the country's diverse needs and problems. 
The CE reveals that candidates who are finally selected come from various sectoral backgrounds.
The Commission, therefore, continues to monitor these trends, informs the Government to take appropriate actions which could impact the future composition of the civil service.
Need for Career Counseling and incentivization of Civil Service
17. There is an increasing trend for high achievers to opt for the private sector as their first career choice.
primarily for fast career growth and better remuneration. 
There is a need to launch a country-wide career counselling program to attract and motivate the best talent towards civil service. 
Besides there is a need to make the service structure more incentivized. 
Recruitment, performance, compensation, career progression and retirement provide positive reinforcement. 
The civil service reforms require looking at it as one package and making it a professional service.
Improving standard of education and higher learning 
18. The pass percentage of the candidates in CSS 2015, feedback received from the examiners on the written scripts as well as the performance of the candidates observed by the Commission in interviews indicate that the standard of education remains below par. 
Competencies, performance and knowledge of the candidates remain average overall. 
It is a candid opinion of the Commission that education both in terms of conceptual clarity, learning and instruction is deteriorating. 
The inadequacies/deficiencies in education system are primarily due to sub-standard school education, particularly in rural areas and need to be addressed appropriately. 
Enhanced efforts are needed to collaborate with Universities/institutes of higher learning and Higher Education Commission to improve the standards of instruction and learning:
Affirmative actions to promote female participation in civil service
19. In Competitive Examination 2015, the number of female applicants was 3754. 
Of the total allocated 238candidates to various groups/services, 10 6or 45% were female. 
Based on their good performance, female candidates qualified in written part in significant numbers and were called for interview and once interviewed, 76were appointed on merit. 
Through another stream i.e. 10% reserved quota for women, another 30candidates were allocated to various groups/services. 
This indicate that the Government's affirmative actions to mainstream female participation in civil service have been effective. 
Given such initiatives, women are likely to show a sizable number in civil service of Pakistan and an enhanced role in national development. 
Issue of vacant seats
20. Posts under Competitive Examination remain unfilled because of non-availability of eligible candidates from respective quotas attaining the threshold. 
In CSS 2015, 9 5seats remained vacant.
inclusive of the carry forward of 82seats from year 2014.
Inavailability of qualified professionals against technical posts
21. The Commission at times does not find qualified and suitable candidates for technical/professional posts from respective quotas. 
During the year 2015, nomination of candidates against 100posts in BS 16-2 0could not be made due to non-availability of qualified professionals in the specialized fields (Information Technology, Geology, Engineering, Medicine) in 65cases. 
It is presumed that better qualified individuals make career choices in favor of the corporate/private sector, as it offers better remuneration and relatively better work environment.
Need for revision of Syllabi and training format of all Training Institutes
22. Syllabi and training format of all Training Institutes needs to be reviewed. 
There seems be more thrust on academics rather than professional grooming or towards building skills for acquiring professional excellence as observed by the Examiners. 
The Commission is of the view that there is a dire need for a comprehensive review and realignment of the FPOE syllabi, training methodology and techniques. 
Training Academies also need to identify potential development needs to enhance the officer's leadership and professional competencies.
Litigation-main cause of delay in processing of cases 
23. Litigation against various decisions has been one of the main hindrances in speedy disposal of recruitment cases. 
During the year, 314fresh cases were filed in various courts. 
382 cases were brought forward from the previous years. 
212 cases were decided during the year. 
Thus, 484 cases were subjudice in different Courts of Law at the end of the year.
Observing Recruitment rules and advice of the Commission 
24. Irregularities and deficiencies in Recruitment Rules were also noted with concern by the Commission. 
As it is mandatory for all Ministries/Divisions/ Depart- ments to solicit the assent of the Commission on the recruitment rules for all civil positions, the Commission received 190cases from Government entities for approval of rules. 
The Commission approved 35cases. However,  4cases were considered unfit and 82cases were processed to remove deficiencies in conjunction with the concerned Government entities. 
In 69cases, the sponsoring Ministry/Division did not frame recruitment rules with prior approval of the Commission and the prescribed eligibility, terms and conditions of service. 
Such appointments not only deprive potential candidates from applying for the posts, but also promote inefficiency and incompetence in civil service. 
There were 10cases in all,7under which ir-regular appointments were made without prior approval of the Commission and in  3cases offer of appointment was delayed by the concerned Ministry/Division/Department. 
There is a need to re-iterate to all Ministries/ Divisions to follow the prescribed procedure for framing recruitment rules with concurrence of the Commission. 
Need for revision of the recruitment rules
25. A set of well-defined recruitment rules is the bench mark for the whole recruitment process. 
The Commission has time and again observed several deficiencies in the way qualifications for various posts are spelled out by sponsoring Ministry/Department.
 The Commission has also repeatedly underscored the need for revision of the recruitment rules which in many cases dates back to 1974. 
This effects the otherwise qualified applicants holding a degree with a different title to apply as well as for the Selection Committee in selecting the right candidate. 
A major portion of 378personal hearings pertained to this specific issue i.e. claim of the candidates for having studied the same or relevant discipline but under a different title. 
With new disciplines/fields being taught at the university level in Pakistan, there is definitely a need to realign the recruitment rules by including/adding these disciplines. 
Revisiting the procedure for personal hearings
26. Efforts have been underway to speed up the recruitment process against ex-cadre posts.
According to the procedural requirements given in the FPSC Ordinance 1977, the rejected candidates are allowed to make representations.
 followed by personal hearings and then review petitions against Commission's decision. 
which causes a delay of about two months. 
The Commission has observed that in personal hearings, every aspect of the aggrieved candidate is addressed; therefore, the provision of going through review petition given in section 7(3) (b) which may consume another one month's time, may be dispensed with. 
 It will still be open to the candidates to approach through the High Court, if they still feel aggrieved. 
Human Resource requirements and recruitment planning be timely communicated to the Commission
27. To speed up the recruitment process, there is a need to advise all the Ministries/Divisions/Departments to keep the Commission informed about their future Human Resource requirements and recruitment planning, on a bi-annual basis. 
Commission to be on board on matters pertaining to Civil Service Reforms
28. The Commission should be a part of all key deliberations on the Civil Service Reforms. 
These recommendations aim to support merit, institutions, discipline and values in driving and sustaining high standards of governance, delivery and performance. 
This should enhance not just institutional excellence but also develop an integrated civil service for Pakistan.
29. The Commission consists of a versatile group of Members who bring both wide experience and knowledge. 
I am grateful to all the Member colleagues for the work they do so meticulously and for their wise advice on so many occasions.
30. We are also particularly grateful for the support of the Secretariat, which brings both conscientiousness and careful scrutiny to its work. 
They have risen to the many challenges that have been thrown at them.
And I am confident, they will continue to do so in the following years. 
31. The Commission expresses its gratitude to the Honorable President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Government for the continued support to this institution. 

(Naveed Akram Cheema)
Chairman
Honourable Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,
President,
Islamic Republic of Pakistan Islamabad 
	




Specimen English
(D.O. Letter from Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman to Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,the President of Pakistan)
M. Salman Faruqui (N.I)
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
 Islamabad, the 29th March, 2015
Dear Mr. President,
When the Almighty saddles one with exceptional responsibilities, He also bestows the strength, the determination, and the wisdom to shoulder those responsibilities and meet those challenges. 
My experience as the Federal Ombudsman, in the twilight of my career in public service, has been no different. 
Halfway through my tenure, I am at a loss for words to express my thanks to Almighty for having given me the strength and, even more importantly, a team of dedicated and committed professionals, who achieved the near impossible challenge of disposing of 77,31 1complaints in the year 2014, a landmark that would surely be the envy of any such institution in the world. 
It is with a strong sense of satisfaction and humility that I bring to your notice that we surpassed our own record of 74,77 5cases disposed of in the previous year, and the annual average of 16,58 3cases in the previous 3 0years.
2. As we continue to endeavour to surpass our own achievements, our focus and priority remain unchanged as does our resolve to bring relief and happiness to the hapless and the helpless of this country, who suffer on account of maladministration, discrimination, inefficiency and indifference of our Federal Agencies and some of their functionaries. 
As we do so, we do not forget to acknowledge the cooperation of those Agencies and their Administrators without whose understanding and help this Office may not have achieved such a high rate of disposal and compliance. 
It is a credit to our Investigating Officers that in more than 99% cases, complainants and agencies accepted their findings. 
Only in less than 1% cases, complainants or agencies filed review petitions or representations to the President of Pakistan. 
The President upheld the findings of our investigating officers in more than 95% representations.
3. It will please you to know that, we are now resolving every complaint without any cost to the complainant within 6 0days or less, and have liquidated the entire backlog of years. 
This is a distinct honour for our institution.
4. Aware of the Federal Government's keen desire to provide speedy justice to the common man for which the National Agenda for Change has been initiated, we have also endeavoured to give clear shape to a Speedy Complaint Resolution Mechanism. 
A feasible and doable proposal has been developed through research by experts and professionals working in our office.
5. A manifestation of the common man's increasing confidence and trust in the institution of the Wafaqi Mohtasib (Federal Ombudsman) is the fact that groups of illustrious individuals in different spheres of public life, including the civil society, the legal community, public representatives, officials and media, responded to our call and agreed to serve on our Federal Committee on Reforms and Speedy Resolution of Complaints and the National Committee on Children. 
Our resolve to reach out to the common man does not end with establishing more offices in the country and extending video links, but a lot needs to be done to reduce the workload on the existing judicial system and to speed up and extend the delivery of justice to the grassroots level, in cooperation with other federal and provincial ombudsmen. 
We have already requested the President and the Prime Minister to co-chair an inter-provincial meeting.
Attended by the concerned Ministers, Provincial Governors and Chief Ministers and all Ombudsmen, for consideration and approval of our proposal to reach the proverbial doorsteps of the complainants and resolve their complaints within days, and not months. 
Our proposal has the blessing of the Federal Advisory Committee on Reforms. 
6. The Office of National Commissioner for Children (ONCC) established in this Secretariat is working out a way forward for Child Ombuds-System for child rights and child protection with the help of the UNICEF. 
To strengthen this system, a National Committee on Children comprising highly credible and prominent personalities has been constituted to guide and advise the National Commissioner. 
7. The Wafaqi Mohtasib Secretariat in Islamabad and its regional offices in Peshawar, D. I. Khan, Multan, Faisalabad, Sukkur, Quetta, Lahore and Karachi have tried their best over the years to make themselves accessible to the complainants. 
Many areas, however, continue to remain out of their reach. We, therefore, plan to establish regional offices in other cities and towns and the Hyderabad office that opened its door last year is the first of many others. 
We are planning to set up similar offices in Abbottabad, Hub and Gwadar and reopen our office in Gilgit Baltistan and, soon Insha Allah, in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA).
8. It is thus with great humility and much satisfaction that I submit to you the Wafaqi Mohtasib (Federal Ombudsman)'s Annual Report for 2014 pursuant to the requirement of the Establishment of the Office of Wafaqi Mohtasib (Ombudsman) Order, 1983.

9. We have endeavoured in every way we could to live up to the expectations of those who look up to this office for prompt and just relief. 
Excellence, however, has no limit. We shall continue to raise its bar for the office of the Federal Ombudsman and we are confident that we shall continue to receive your gracious support and kind encouragement in our efforts. 
Sincerely, 
(M. Salman Faruqui)
Hon'ble Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,
The  President Islamic Republic of Pakistan
 Islamabad. 
	













Specimen English
D.O. Letter from Mr. Syed Tahir Shahbaz, Federal Ombudsman to Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,the President of Pakistan
Syed Tahir Shahbaz
Wafaqi Mohtasib of Pakistan
President Asian Ombudsman Association
 No. 6/1/DS-A Islamabad, March 15, 2018
Dear Mr. President, 
Towards the end of my career in civil service, I have been assigned the responsibility of Wafaqi Mohtasib (Ombudsman) since July 2017.  
1 am immensely thankful to Almighty Allah for this honour, as it is an opportunity to serve the common man, suffering due to maladministration at the hands of various Federal Government Agencies.
The Year 2017 has been an eventful one as it continued to draw complaints from a large number of people seeking relief. 
It is a measure of confidence of the people, in the ability of the institution that 83,45 7complaints were handled during the year. 
The trust of the people in the institution is the result of dedication and excellent work of my illustrious predecessors over three decades. 
For me, it is satisfying to achieve almost zero pendency and proper disposal, within the prescribed period, by the end of the year.
Our success, undoubtedly owes a lot to your kind support and patronage apart from the dedicated work of our advisors and employees, who worked over time and during the weekends to achieve these ambitious targets. 
I seek Allah's blessings in the years ahead and look forward to your continued support and guidance.
To conclude, it is my privilege and pleasure to present to you the Wafaqi Mohtasib's Report for the year 2017.
With profound regards, 
Sincerely,
(Syed Tahir Shahbaz)
Honourable Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,
President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Islamabad.



Specimen English
D.O. Letter from Mr. Abdul Rauf Chaudhary, Federal Tax Ombudsman to Mr. Mamnoon Hussain, the President Islamic Republic of Pakistan
(Annual Report)
D.O.No. 10-(2) 2015-A-II Islamabad, March 28, 2016
Mr. Abdul Rauf Chaudhary,
Federal Tax Ombudsmen
Tel.0519558352
Dear Mr. President,
It is indeed a very distinguished honor for me to present Annual Report for the year 2015to your esteemed office. 
The report briefly enumerates the performance of Federal Tax Ombudsman's Secretariat. 
This Office established in the year 2000to resolve the complaints of the tax payers against maladministration of the federal tax collectors, generally receives and decides Although the number of complaints decided during 2015(i.e. 1,610) remained within the range, yet this year was momentous in several aspects. 
During the year, the number of complaints decided in favor of the complainants increased significantly to 70%; while in quantitative terms it constitutes a preponderant chunk (1,127) out of the total number of 1,61 0complaints. 
Similarly, the acceptability of the decisions of the FTO also improved and 85% of our decisions were straightaway accepted by the complainants and Federal Board of Revenue (FBR).
2. Following the guidelines provided under Article 37of our Constitution which guarantees that the state of Pakistan would ensure inexpensive and expeditious justice' to the aggrieved persons, the FTO office took effective measures to reduce the time taken in the disposal of complaints. 
In addition, the FTO's secretariat continued its policy of self-assessment and benchmarking with a view to improve service delivery and learn from the accredited management standards practiced elsewhere in the world.
3. We also continued our collaboration and partnership with international donors and other Ombudsman offices through regional and international cooperation. 
The FTO's secretariat successfully implemented two important projects aimed at capacity building of the Ombudsmen offices, with the generous financial assistance and technical guidance provided by the World Bank.
4. During the year the Advisory Committee comprising tax experts and eminent representatives of the business community compiled a very comprehensive report containing useful proposals, related to issuance of SROs, establishment of a Taxpayers Integrated Information System linked with CNIC as the sole identifier and adoption of globally accepted principle of separation of tax policy, collection of revenue and adjudication. 
The report was presented to the Government for consideration during preparation of Finance Bill for the year 2015-16.
5. Finally, I would express my sincerest thanks and gratitude to your august office for sagacious guidance and direction provided through your prudent judgments on representations filed by the FBR or aggrieved taxpayers. 
With profound regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Abdul Rauf Choudhary)
Honourable Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,
President, 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan Islamabad.













Specimen English
(D.O.Letter from Mr. Ishrat Husain,Governor, State Bank of Pakistan to Dr. Salman Shah, Advisor to the Prime Minister on Finance)
Letter of Transmittal
(Annual Report)
No.10/(2)2015-1-1 Karachi,  October 20, 2005.
Mr. Ishrat Husain
Governor
State Bank of Pakistan,
My dear,Dr. Salman Shah, Advisor to the Prime Minister on Finance
In accordance with Section 40(2) of the State Bank of Pakistan Act 1956, the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on June 30, 200 5and the Profit and Loss Account for the year 2004-200 5duly signed by me, Deputy Governor, Director of Accounts and certified by the Banks' Auditors  were transmitted to the Government on September 17, 2005.
2.In continuation thereof I submit herewith the Annual Report (Volume I & II) of the Central Board of Directors on the working of the Bank for the year ended
With best personal regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Ishrat Husain)
Governor
Dr. Salman Shah, 
Advisor to the Prime Minister on Finance
Government of Pakistan, Islamabad.






















Chapter No 4
Authorisation for Publication of Official Documents 
(List of Contents)
Introductory Note
Official Classified Documents							   
Specimen English												  
D.O. Letter from Mr. M. Yusuf Buch, SAPM to Mr. Agha Shahi, Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Dated 14th October 1976
Specimen English	   
D.O. Letter dated 23rd October 1976 from Mr. Agha Shahi, Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Mr. M. Yusuf Buch, SAPM
Specimen English												    
D.O. Letter from Mr. M. Yusuf Buch SAPM to Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary, Establishment Division
dated 21st October 1976
Specimen English												    
D.O.Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Secretary Cabinet Division to Mr. M. Yusuf Buch SAPM
dated 26October 1976
Official Classified Documents 
1. Public Record




2. Security Arrangements
		
3. Classification 

i. Top Secret
ii. Secret
iii. Confidential
iv. Restricted



4. Subsequent Movement/Transfer of Custody



5. Access to Public Records





6. Receipt of Classified Matter


7. Diarisation of Classified Matter



Specimen English
(D.O. Letter from Mr. M.Yusuf Buch, Special Assistant to the Prime Minister to Mr. Agha Shahi Foreign Secretary
No. 2356-SAPM/76 Dated 1 4October 1976.
M. Yusuf Buch
Special Assistant to the Prime Minister,
Tel.0519206583
My dear Foreign Secretary,
As you are no doubt aware, the Prime Minister has prepared an exposition of the development of our foreign policy based on the adoption and implementation of the principle of Bilateralism. 
There are references in the exposition which would be further clarified by the relevant documentary evidence. 
These documents have been supplied to me by the Foreign Office from its archives. 
Even though, as Chief Executive of the Government, the Prime Minister has the prerogative to determine whether or not the contents of a document, classified or otherwise, should be made public knowledge in the interest of the State, he has, in the present case, chosen not to exercise the right himself. 
Instead, he has asked me to obtain the permission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for their publication as annexes to the Prime Minister's own signed article.
The list of the documents is appended herewith.
In requesting this permission, I am actuated by the consideration that the publishing of these documents will serve the public interest of creating a better understanding of the orientation of our external policy. 
At the same time, it will by no means impinge on our current relations with any foreign power.
Please convey to me your concurrence or otherwise with this evaluation. 
In the event of the permission being accorded, I shall communicate to the Ministry of Information that the publication of these documents is authorized.
Yours sincerely,
M. Yusuf Buch
Mr. Agha Shahi,
Secretary
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,Islamabad





Specimen English
D.O. Letter from Mr. Agha Shahi, Foreign Secretary, to Mr.M. Yusuf Buch, Speceial Assistant to the Prime Minister
No. 7774/FS/76 Islamabad, October 23, 1976
Agha Shahi,
Foreign Secretary,
Tel.0519208541
Dear Special Assistant,
Please refer to your letter No. 2356.SAPM/76, dated 1 4October 197 6regarding certain documents to be published as annexes to the Prime Minister's exposition of the principles of Bilateralism. 
We concur with your evaluation and agree to the publication of the documents mentioned in the list enclosed with your letter.
Yours sincerely,
(Agha Shahi)
Mr. M. Yusuf Buch,
Special Assistant to the Prime Minister







Specimen English
D.O. Letter dated 2October 1976from Mr. M. Yousuf Buch, Special Assitant to the Prime Minister to Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Cabinet  Secretary
No. 2366-SAPM/76 October 21, 1976 M. 
Yusuf Buch,
Special Assistant to the Prime Minister,
Tel.0519250665
My dear Cabinet Secretary,
The Prime Minister has prepared an exposition of the development of our foreign policy over the year. 
This will be printed shortly. 
For purpose of clarification, some documents need to be annexed to the publication. 
In addition to those which have been obtained from the archives of the Foreign Office, the Annexes will also include resumes of Cabinet discussions on Foreign Policy in December 195 8and November 1960. 
These resumes are prepared on the basis of the summaries submitted to the Cabinet, the points made and the decisions reached at the meetings.
2. Considering that the publication of the Prime Minister's article, supported with the necessary documentation, will serve the interest of the Sate in creating better understanding of our external policy, I would ask the permission of the Cabinet Division for the two resumes mentioned above being published.
The documents have been suitably excerpted to ensure that they do not impinge on our current relations with any foreign power.
As Chief Executive of the Government, the Prime Minister has the prerogative to grant or to withhold such permission. 
However,in the present intance, he has chosen not to exercise the right himself.
4. I would appreciate an early response. 
If the permission is accorded, I shall communicate to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting that the publication of the resumes of the Cabinet discussion is aothorized.
Yours sincerely,
(M. Yusuf Buch)
Mr. Vaqar Ahmad
Secretary
Cabinet Division, Rawalpindi
Specimen English
D.O. Letter from Mr. Vaqar Ahmad, Cabinet Secretary to Mr. M. Yusuf Buch, Special Assistant to the Prime Minister
D.O. No. D3557/PS/CS/76	 October 26, 1976
Vaqar Ahmad,
Cabinet Secretary,
Tel: 0519267192
My dear Special Assistant,
Please refer to your d.o. letter No. 2366-SAPM/76, dated 21st October 1976. 
We agree with your views that the publication of the documents referred to in your letter as annexure to the Prime Minister's article will be in the interest of the State. 
You may communicate this authorisation to the Ministry of Information.
Yours sincerely,
(Vaqar Ahmad)
Mr. M. Yusuf Buch,
Special Assistant to the Prime Minister
Chapter No 5
Book Reading 
List of Contents
Introductory Note
Book-Reading(Promotion of Book Culture)							    
Specimen English												    
D.O. Letter dated 2nd February 201 8from Engr. Aamir Hasan, Secretary, National History and Literary Heritage Division to Prof. Dr. Mukhtar Ahmad, Chairman, Higher Education Commission, Islamabad.
Specimen English												    
D.O.Letter dated 1st March 201 8from Dr. Inam-ul-Haq Javeid, Managing Director, National Book Foundation, Islamabad to Mr. Abdullah Jan, Secretary Baluchistan Higher Education Commission, Quetta
Book Reading
(Promotion of Book Culture)
	
















































































































Specimen English
(D.O.Letter from Engr. Aamir Hasan, Secretary,National History and Literary Heritage to Prof. Dr. Mukhtar Ahmad, Chairman, Higher Education, Islamabad)
Engr. Aamir Hasan		Government of Pakistan ,National Histroy & Literary
Secretary,	Heritage Division M/o Information, Broadcasting,
Ph.0519255056	National History & Literary Heritage
No.F.1-2/2017/SO(Secy Islamabad, 2nd February, 2018
Subject:Allocation of Space for the Bookshops/Outlets for the Publications of National Book Foundation as per Directives of Public Accounts Committee
My Dear Dr Mukhar

I would like to draw your kind attention that National Book Foundation (NBF), an autonomous body under the administrative control of this Division has been established under Act No.XIX of 197 2by the Government of Pakistan. 
with the mandate to promote book culture in the country and provision of books at moderate price. 
For this purpose, NBF has opened its bookshops/outlets in various cities of the country with the help of local Governments for dissemination of knowledge and promotion of book culture. 
The places for these bookshops have been provided free of cost by the respective local Government. 
Likewise the bookshops of NBF have also been established at the leading Airports and Railway Stations across the country. 
2. While discussing the Audit Reports for the year 2016-17, the Public Accounts Committee has acknowledged these services rendered by NBF and directed to expand the branches /outlets of NBF at every University in coordination with Higher Education Commission. 
3. In view of above and to promote the noble cause of study and dissemination of knowledge through book reading, it would be highly appreciated if the directions may be passed to the respective universities under your domain to allocate space for the bookshops/outlets of publications of NBF on gratis basis. 
NBF will provide its publication & books required to the students at moderate rates. 
4. I am also advising Managing Director, NBF to hold a meeting with you on this issue, at your convenience. 
With Warm Regards 
Yours Sincerely, 
( Engr. Aamir Hasan )
Prof. Dr. Mukhtar Ahmad, 
Chairman,
Higher Education Commission, Islamabad  
(Engr. Aamir Hasan)





1. A Study of the Ombudsman in Pakistan
2. A report on the human rights violations in the State of Kuwait 
3. Operations Silence: Long  term implications and policy options for Pakistan
4. Traditional Politics of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa: Perceived Deprivation and its impact on Psychological Profile of KP
5. Public Administration Reforms and Management Innovations: The case of Karachi Port Trust etc.
Specimen English
(D,O. Letter from Dr. Inam-ul-Haq Javaid, Managing Director, National Book Foundation, Islamabad, to Mr. Abdullah Jan, Secretary, Baluchistan Higher Education Commission, Quetta)
National Book Foundation 
National History & Literary Heritage Division 
Ministry of Information, Broadcasting & National Heritage 
Government of Pakistan 
No.3108HAB-619 Islamabad, 1st March, 2018. 
Subject:Allocation of Space for the Bookshops/Outlets for the Publications of National Book Foundation as per Directives of Public Accounts Committee
My dear Abdulla Jan
In compliance of Public Accounts Committee's directions regarding expansion of NBF Branches/outlets and coordination with Higher Education Commission, it is apprised that NBF is trying its level best to disseminate knowledge for the promotion of book culture since long. 
Therefore, in this regard, Secretary, National History & Literary Heritage Division, addressed a letter dated 2nd February, 2018to your goodself (photocopy enclosed).
2. Following are Terms of Reference (TORs) for opening of NBF University Bookshops:
1. NBF University Bookshop 
a. University will provide one big room preferably measuring 22' x 40' (88 0sq. ft.) free of rent (along with electricity, land line telephone and DSL to operate Readers Club scheme) for "NBF University Bookshop" at a place easily accessible/approachable for faculty members / staff / students.
b. A small store preferably measuring 10'x10' near the Bookshop is also required for keeping stock of books.
c. NBF will prepare and provide bookshelves, counter, furniture, small sitting area, etc. in it.
d. The Bookshop and the Store will be managed/looked after/run by the NBF's staff. 
2. Discount on books
a. NBF will provide 1 5to 33% discount on all general books published by NBF and other publishers. 
b. 15% discount will be provided on textbooks published by NBF. 
3. Readers Club Scheme 
National Book Foundation
NBF will introduce Readers Club scheme in "NBF University Bookshop" and will allocate specific quota of Readers Club membership for the faculty members/staff/students. 
According to the set procedure members of this readers club scheme will be provided 55% discount on all books. 
4. Demand Register 
National Book Foundation
A demand register will be placed in the "NBF University Bookshop" at a prominent place to record the demand of the faculty members/staff/students and NBF will arrange supply of the demanded books. 
5. Book Fair/Exhibition
With mutual consultation, NBF will organize Book Fair/Exhibitions in the University from time to time.
Special discount packages upto 40% will be provided in these Book Fair/Exhibitions.
6. Suggestion Register
NBF will maintain a "Suggestion Register" in the "NBF University Bookshop" to record the suggestions given by the faculty members/staff/students. These suggestions will be honoured by the NBF in true letter and spirit. 
7. Production of University Books
NBF will make publication work of University as per production cost, terms and conditions. 
8. Books for Library
"NBF University Bookshop" while procuring the books (local and imported) for their own central library and departments for stability and maintenance of this bookshop.
Concerned Universities will give priority to
Your cooperation in this regard will be highly appreciable.
With regards, 
Yours sincerely, 
(Dr. lnam-u -Haq Javeid) 
Managing Director 
Mr. Abdullah Jan,
Secretary,
Baluchistan Higher Education Commission, Quetta.  
Copy to:
(i) Mr. Haroon-ur-Rashid, Section Officer (Heritage), NH&LH Division, Islamabad. Provision of at least two staff members for each NBF University Bookshop (one Assistant and one Naib Qasid).
(ii) Regional Incharge, NBF, Quetta, for further pursuance.











Chapter No 2
Buddhist Relics---Exhibition in Sri Lanka 
List of Content
Introductory Note
(Vesak, Buddha Day, Buddha Birth day)								 
Specimen English												   
D.O.Letter dated 17th April 201 8from Engr. Aamir Hasan, Secretary, National History and Literary Heritage Division to Capt(R) Zahid Saeed, Chief Secretary, Government of the Punjab, Lahore
Vesak, Buddha Day, Buddha Birthday














(Annual Buddha Rashmi National Vesak Festival)
	










Buddh Population in the World




Specimen English
D.O.Letter from Engr. Aamir Hasan, Secretary,Capt(R) Zahid Saeed, Chief Secretary, Government of the Punjab, Lahore
Government of Pakistan
M/o Information, Broadcasting, National History & Literary Heritage Division
Engr. Aamir Hasan,National History & Literary Heritage
Secretary
Ph.051-9266058							
F.No.4-45/2015/T-Vesak(Festival)	Islamabad, the 17th April, 2018
My Dear,
The Sri Lankan Prime Minister's office is organizing an exhibition of Buddhist statues, Buddhist traditions/ Artifacts/ Sacred Relics on the occasion of forthcoming Vesak Festival - a Buddhist religious event, from 29th April to 5th May, 201 8in Sri Lanka.
They have requested Government of Pakistan, through Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to obtain suitable exhibits for the aforementioned event from Pakistan.
Realizing the importance of cordial relations between two countries, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Pakistan has requested this Division for provision of the sacred Buddhist relics. 
In 2016a similar favour was extended by us by sending Sacred Buddhist relics from Taxila Museum to Sri Lanka. 
The event was widely appreciated.
Pakistan has also been celebrating Vesak Festival for past two years. 
This step compliments the Memorandum of Understanding (2016-2019) signed between Sri Lanka and Pakistan and will further strengthen the existing ties between both the Countries. 
2. The Department of Information, Culture & Youth Affairs of the Government of the Punjab was requested for provision of list of artifacts / relics that could be sent to Sri Lanka to realize the international commitment under standard documentation that may include a separate agreement with the Sri Lankan authorities. 
Their response is, however, still awaited. 
3. As a recent development, Ministry of Foreign Affairs has requested to provide the estimated value of the sacred tooth relic for having the insurance value arranged by Sri-Lankan High Commission in Pakistan.
The last estimation of the insurance value of the tooth relic along with its golden and stone caskets came out to be USD 3. 0Millions. 
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also conveyed that the tooth relic should be sent to the forthcoming Vesak Festival in Sri Lanka to honour the commitment of the Prime Minister of Pakistan. 
In view of above I would request you to kindly advise the concerned department to send their response in the matter on priority basis. 
Encl: Copies of correspondence and relevant papers 
With Regards, 
(Engr. Aamir Hasan) 
Capt. (R) Zahid Saeed 
Chief Secretary,
Government of the Punjab, Lahore 
C.c: 
i. The Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Islamabad.
ii. The Secretary, Information, Culture & Youth Affairs Department, Government of the Punjab, Lahore.













Chapter No 7
Budgetary Matters 
(List of Contents)
Introductory Note		   
(a) Annual Budget Statement-Articles of the Constitution of Islamic Republic of Pakistan
(b) Budget Call Circular
(c) Budget Process in Pakistan
(d) Preparation of Budget Estimates
(e) Annual Development Programme
Specimen English          
(Letter dated 6th November 2004from Mr. Arif Mansur, Additional Finance Secretary (Budget) to all the Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge of the Ministries/Divisions (By name)
Specimen English												  
(Letter dated 18th December 2017 from Syed Ghazanfar Abbas Jilani, Additional Finance Secretary (Budget) Finance Division to all the Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge of the Ministries/Divisions (By name)
Introductory Note
(Finance Minister Budget Speech)
Specimen English													  
(Letter from Joint Secretary (Budget Implementation), Ministry of Finance to Secretary Division, Islamabad
(Material for the Finance Minister's Budget Speech)
(a) Annual Budget Statement
	
 
 
 
 (Procedure relating to Annual Budget Statement)









(Supplementary and Excess Grants)
	

(Power to Authorize Expenditure when Assembly Stands Dissolved)

(b) Budget Call Circular







(c) Budget Process









(d) Preparation of Budget Estimates
 	











(Main Parts of the Budget)

(Revenue Budget)



(Capital Budget)












(e) Annual Development Programme













(Resourced Estimates)






(Estimates of the Federal Government for Foreign assistance)





(Effect to New Taxation Proposals)


 (Schedule of Authorized Expenditure)
 
 
Specimen English
(Letter from Mr. Arif Mansur, Additional Finance Secretary (Budget) to all the Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge of the Ministries/Divisions) (By name)
Budget/Immediate
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of Finance and Revenue
(Finance Division)
From: Arif Mansur
Additional Finance Secretary (Budget)
Ph.0519655056
D.O.No. 1(146)DBA/2004	Islamabad, the 6th November 2004
Dear Mr. Secretary, 
As you are aware, a new computerized system of budgeting, accounting and reporting was introduced under the Project for Improvement of Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) in Financial Year 2004-2005. 
The system is based on a New Accounting Model (NAM) and a new Chart of Accounts (COA) that has replaced the old Chart of Classification (COC). 
2.Next year, the Budget for 2005-2006will be prepared and presented according to COA of NAM.
Kindly find enclosed the following in connection with the preparation of the Budget for the next financial year (2005-2006)
(i) Procedure and time table for submission of Revised Estimates 2004-2005and Budget Estimates 2005-2006 in respect of Receipts of the Federal Government on COA.Annex-I
(ii) Procedure and time table for submission of Revised Estimates 2004-2005and Budget Estimates 2005-2006in respect of Current and Development Expenditures on COA (and COC for backup). Annex-II
(iii) IInstructions relating to the compilation of format according to NAM/COA.Annex-III
(iv) Format of "New Item Statement"/"Budget Order" on New Accounting Model (NAM)/COA Annex-IV
(v) Proforma for indicating details of posts on NAM Annex-V

(vi) CInstructions relating to the completion of format according to COC 	Annex-VI
(vii) Format of "New Item Statement"/"Budget Order" on existing basis i.e. on COC Annex-VII
(viii) Proforma for indicating details of Posts on existing basis.Annex-VIII
3. The Revised Estimates for the year 2004-2005for Current and Development Expenditures have to indicate, interalia, the following:
a) Appropriations or re-appropriations within the sanctioned grants.
b) New items of expenditure sanctioned through supplementary grants.
c) Surrenders made or likely to be made during the year. 
4. The officers responsible for compilation of the Budget in your Ministry/ Division may please be advised to follow the procedures and the time schedule laid down in the attachments (Annex I to VIII) strictly. 
5. The receipt of this letter may kindly be acknowledged. 
 With regards
Sincerely yours, 
(Arif Mansur ) 
All Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge of Ministries/Divisions (By Name)   Copy forwarded to all FAs/DFAs, Islamabad / Rawalpindi / Karachi with the advice that all BOs/NISs be prepared in the computerized formats. 
The figures are to be rounded to the nearest thousand. 
(M.Nasrul Aziz)
Coordinator
(Ministry of Finance)
Phone:0519255056
Endt. No.1(146)DBA/2004	 Islamabad, the 6th November, 2004
Copy forwarded for information and necessary action to:
1. Auditor General of Pakistan, Islamabad.
2. Controller General of Accounts, Islamabad.
3. Registrar, Supreme Court of Pakistan, Islamabad.
4. Chairman, Federal Public Service Commission/Service Tribunal/Federal Land Commission, Islamabad.
5. Special Secretary (Military Finance), Rawalpindi.
6. Secretary, State Bank of Pakistan, Central Directorate, Karachi.
7. Director Accounts, State Bank of Pakistan, Central Directorate, Karachi.
8. Director Generals Defence, Works and Commercial (Audit) including Chief Accounts Officer, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Audit and Accounts Officer, Pakistan High Commission, London.
9. All Accountants General/Directors General Audit/Directors Audit.
10. Chief (Programming), Planning & Development Division, Islamabad. 
11. Member Finance, Pakistan Railway Board, Islamabad.
12. Member Finance, WAPDA, Lahore.
13. All Joint Secretaries, Deputy Secretaries and Section Officers, Finance Division, Islamabad/Karachi. 
(M.Nasrul Aziz)
Coordinator
(Ministry of Finance)
Phone:0519206636
Specimen English
(D.O.Letter from Syed Ghazanfar Abbas Jilani, Additional Finance Secretary (Budget), Finance Division to all the Secretaries/Additional Secretaries
Incharge of the Ministries/Divisions (By name)
Budget/Immediate
From:Syed Ghazanfar Abbas Jilani,Government of Pakistan
Additional Finance Secretary (Budget)	Finance Division
Phone: 0519206636
D.O.No.F.1(253)DBA/2017 Islamabad, the 18th December 2017
Subject: Submission of Revised Estimates 2017-18, Budget Estimates 2018-1 9and Medium-Term Budget Estimates 2018-21
Dear Sir/Madam,

The Budget Call Circular for the year 2018-1 9is attached. Budget will be formulated as per the method of 'output-based budgeting'. 
The budget so prepared will contain revised estimates for 2017-18, budget estimates for 2018-19and medium-term budget estimates for 2018-21. 
The Budget Call Circular has two sections: 
Section I includes budget preparation forms, instructions and procedure for preparation and submission of detailed budget- 
Revised Estimates (2017-18) and Budget Estimates (2018-19) in respect of Federal Government receipts, current and development expenditure.
Section II includes forms and instructions for allocation of indicative budget ceilings to 'outputs' (services), and for the development of output-based budgets (presented in the MTBF Green Book). 
LM forms - or the Line Ministry Forms- 
will be completed by the Office of Principal Accounting Officers, and Fund Centre Form will be completed by their attached departments and sub-ordinate offices to prepare medium-term budget 2018-21.
Special instructions and Budget Calendar are at Appendix A and Appendix B, respectively. Budget preparation process is at Appendix C.
2. The Indicative Budget Ceilings of current and development budget for three years i.e2018-19,2019-2 0and 2020-21will be communicated through a separate letter.
3. Receipt of this letter may kindly be acknowledged. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely, 
Syed Ghazanfar Abbas Jilani 
All Secretaries / Additional Secretaries 
Incharge of Ministries / Divisions (By Name),
Endt. / D.O.No.F.1(253)DBA/201 7		    Islamabad, the 18th December 201 7
Copy forwarded for information and necessary action to:
1. Auditor General of Pakistan, Islamabad.
2. Controller General of Accounts, Islamabad.
3. Registrar, Supreme Court of Pakistan, Islamabad.
4. Registrar, Islamabad High Court, Islamabad.
5. Secretary, Federal Public Service Commission /Federal Service Tribunal / Federal Land Commission, Islamabad.
6. Additional Secretary, Finance Division (Military), Rawalpindi.
7. All Accountants General / Directors General Audit / Directors Audit.
8. Director Generals Defence; Works and Commercial (Audit)
9. Chief Account's Officer, Minislry of Foreign Affairs, Islamabad.
10. Chief (Programming), Planning, Development and Reform Division, Islamabad.  
11.Member Finance, Pakistan Railway Board, Islamabad.
12. Member Finance, WAPDA, Lahore.
13. All Senior Joint Secretaries, Joint Secretaries, Deputy Secretaries and Section Officers, Finance Division, Islamabad.
14. All FAs / DFAs with the advice to assure quality of the Budget Orders / New Item Statements in accordance with the given instructions. 
(Jibran Khalil  Malik)
Joint Secretary (Budget Implementation)
Phone:0519255056 Fax:0519255058
Finance Minister Budget Speech







Specimen English
(D.O.Letter from Joint Secretary (Budget Implementation)
Ministry of Finance to all the Federal Secretaries (by name)
Name: Mr. Haque Nawaz,	Ministry of Finance
Joint Secretary	 Government of Pakistan
(Budget Implementation)						    
Tel:0519255058 
F.No.(1)-BPO/2013 Islamabad, 27th February, 2019
P.C. 44000		
Subject: Material for the Finance Minister's Budget Speech for the Financial Year 2015
Dear Mr. Secretary,

As a part of the Budget making process, Ministries/Divisions provide material relating to their area of activity for inclusion in the Finance Minister's Budget Speech. 
The material for the Budget Speech generally covers the following aspects:
(i) Performance of Ministry/Division/Organization during the current financial year.
(ii) Major activities/proposals to be undertaken in the forthcoming fiscal year 2015 in particular and for 2014& 2015in general, and expected improvements. 
(iii) Any other important information. 
2. I shall be grateful, if the material is prepared in a concise and focused manner 4to5typed pages) and provided to the Budget Wing of the Finance Division before ------date-------. 
Being a policy document, it should be approved, at least, by the Additional Secretary of your Ministry/Division. 
Additionally, the soft copy of the material may also be forwarded to me at the following email address: haquenawaz@hotmail. com.  
With kind regards.
Yours sincerely,
Haque Nawaz)
Mr.

Secretary
Division
Government of Pakistan, Islamabad
 Chapter No 8
Capacity Building for Public Service Delivery to Meet Contemporary Challenges Important Points of the Recommendations of the Wafaqi Mohtasib Committee
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note\
Specimen English
Letter dated 16th February201 7from	Mr. M. Salman Faruqui (Nishan-i- Imtiaz), Federal Ombudsman to the President, Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
Important Points of the Recommendations of the Ombudsman's Committee on Capacity Building for Public Service Delivery to Meet Contemporary Challenges 
1. Improving Governance Through Training	


2. Existing Training Structure	











3. Strengthening the Recruitment Process	




4. Training Needs Assessment and its Importance








5. Pre-service Training






6. Operational Autonomy






7. Training Impact Assessment






8. Incentivisation of Training and Improving the Quality of Faculty





9. Training of Staff




10. Global Perspective of Training

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Specimen English 
(D.O. Letter from Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, (NI) Federal Ombudsman to Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,President of Pakistan) 
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui Nishan-Imtiaz
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan President Asian Ombudsman Association
President Asian Region, International Ombudsman Institute
No. 1(10)/HWM/2017 February 16, 2017
Dear Mr. President,
The civil services constitute the steel frame on which is raised the administrative structure of a state.
Pakistan is no exception. 
It were the civil services of Pakistan which saw through the formative days of the state and ensured that the fragile structure did not collapse. 
To their credit, it gained in strength and became a strong and stable country. 
But that was yesterday. 
Unfortunately, it is not so today. 
It was in this background that we constituted a Committee of eminent persons of vast and varied experience to deliberate on issues of raising the capacity of our new and in service civil servants. 
2. It gives me immense personal satisfaction to present this Report of the Committee on Capacity Building for Public Service delivery to meet contemporary challenges. 
3. It goes without saying that efficient and professional civil service is absolutely vital for good governance.
Appropriate training of public servants who are responsible for service delivery is therefore essential for improving their efficiency and professionalism.
4. Training is fundamental to growth, performance improvement, efficiency enhancement and capacity building. Everyone needs not only training, but continuous retraining as well, within respective fields/spheres, for self-actualization and potential optimization. 
But somehow, training is rarely accepted as an interesting and challenging activity. 
In most organizations it is dealt with as yet another routine, run of the mill formality that needs to be done only to fulfill job/service requirements. 
5. Public servants need to be trained in a mode and manner, so as to develop and enhance their knowledge and skills and bring about positive attitudinal change in them in order to equip them with capability for better service delivery.
6. It was in this background that a Committee on Training was constituted under the able Chairmanship of Dr. A. Hafeez Pasha, former Federal Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs, Deputy Chairman Planning Commission and former Assistant Secretary General United Nations. 
He was joined by eminent members with long experience in public service. 
The Committee devised its ToR which covered not only pre/in-service and professional training but initial recruitment process of public servants as well. 
7. The Committee has identified systemic issues which need to be addressed to streamline the training regime. 
We believe that a truthful implementation of the recommendations made in this report will go a long way, bringing our training structure and system in line with best international practices in order to meet contemporary challenges. 
8. I must thank Dr. A. Hafeez Pasha and his distinguished associates for their outstanding work in preparing this report. 
I must also appreciate here the work of Mr. Naimatullah Abid, former Director General NIPA, Peshawar for his tireless work as Member/Secretary of the Committee. 
9. We hope the recommendations of the Committee will be considered and implemented in the spirit in which they have been formulated. I look forward to your feedback. 
Yours sincerely,
(Salman Faruqui)
Hon'able Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,
President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Islamabad.
Chapter No 9
Condolence  Letter
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note												   
Specimen English												   
Letter from the President of Pakistan to Mr. Nusil Wadia, on the death of his mother, Dina Wadia, the daughter of the Quaid-i-Azam  
Specimen English												   
Letter from Mr. Shamshad Ahmad Foreign Secretary to Mr. Tanveer Hussain Siddiqui, on the death of his Father  
Specimen English												   
Letter from Dr. Anwar Ahmad, University of Gujrat (Sialkot Campus) , Former Director General, National Language Promotion Department,(NLPD) to Dr. Anjum Hameed, Director, NLPD.  
Specimen English												   
Letter from Mr. Abdul Hameed Mir, Director Staff Training Institute, Services and General Administration Department, Azad Government of State of Jammu and Kashmir to Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Deputy Secretary, Prime Minister's Secretariat 
Specimen English												   
Letter dated 1 1February 2004, from Major General Haroon Sikandar Pasha, Director General National Accountability Bureau, Karachi Cantt. to Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Director, National Security Council.
Specimen English												   
Earthquak in -----------(name of country)---------- (Letter from Mr. -------------,  the President of Pakistan to  Mr.-------------------------- the President of  ---------(name of country)-------(
Speciman English
Death of the  President of -------------in a Plane Crash  ( Condolence Letter from  the Prime minister of ------name of country-----to his Counterpart
Specimen English												   
Expression of Sympathy Over the Tragic Incident (Letter from Mr. ---------------- Prime Minister, --------(name of country)------- to Mr. --------------Prime Minister, ---------(name of country)---------)
Specimen English												  
Response to a Condolence Letter (Letter from Mr.--------------- Prime Minister --------(name of country)-------, to Mr. ----------------- Prime Minister, --------(name of country)-------)
Specimen English												  
Condolence Letter (Letter from Mr.--------------- Prime Minister --------(name of country)-------, to his Counterpart)
Specimen English												  
(Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister,----name of country---- to his counterpart on receiving a Condolence Letter)
 Specimen English												  
Letter from the Prime Minister , -----name of country----, to the Prime Minister, -----name of country-----
Condolence Letter








































Specimen English 
(Letter from the President of Pakistan to Mr. Nusil Wadia, on the Death of his Mother Dina Wadia, The Daughter of the Quaid-i-Azam)
No. A/112/M Islamabad, date   25-03-1999
Dear,
On behalf of the people of Pakistan and on my own behalf, I wish to convey our profound sympathies and condolences over the sad demise of Mr. Dina Wadia.
We feel your sense of loss and share your grief and sorrow. 
In this difficult hour, our best thoughts and prayers are with you and the family.
2. The people of Pakistan will always remember Mrs. Wadia as the beloved daughter of their Founding Father Quaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah and hold her in deep respect and highest esteem.
3. Mrs. Wadia's memories of the Quaid as an affectionate father and as a towering political figure whose struggle culminated in the creation of Pakistan are treasured by the nation. 
The people of Pakistan fondly remember the last visit of Ms. Wadia and her visit to the Quaid's Mausoleum.
4. May the departed soul rest in eternal peace and may the family have the courage and fortitude to bear this irreplaceable loss. Ameen.
Yours sincerely, 
President
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Mr. Nusil Wadia
Address
Specimen English 
Condolence Letter from Mr. Shamshad Ahmad 
Foreign Secretary to Mr. Tanveer Hussain Siddiqui, on the death of his father
Shamshad Ahmad
Foreign Secretary
No. 1/5/97-FSO	13th December, 1997.
My dear Tanveer Siddiqui,
I and all your colleagues in the Ministry were deeply shocked to learn of the sad passing away of your father. 
Please accept our heartfelt condolences. May Allah Almighty shower His belessing on the departed soul and give you the fortitude and courage to bear this irreparable loss.
Yours sincerely, 
(Shamshad Ahmad)
Mr. Tanweer H. Siddiqui,
House No. 1185, Near Al-Bilal Masjid,
Satellite Town, Rawalpindi.

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Specimen English
Condolence Letter from Dr. Anwar Ahmad, University of Gujrat (Siallkot Campus)Former Director General, National Language Promotion Department (NLPD) to Dr. Anjum Hameed, Director NLPD.  
University of Gujrat,
Sialkot Campus,
Daska Road, Sialkot. 19th September, 2013.
Dr. Anjum Sahiba,
Salam,
Arif informed me about the death of your father. I could send you a few lines of condolences but I wanted to come to Islamabad and offer Fateha Prayers in your office. 
I know that you have served your father very much and acquired blessings.
2. I am very grateful to you for the cooperation you extended in connection with publications during my attachment to the National Language Authority and I believe that you will be appreciated. 
I am grieved that there could be no progress in practical cooperation or in common academic plans with Farhangistan Zuban-o-Adab Farsi and you know that this is not a personal shock, it is a national and institutional loss.

Wassalam,
Yours sincerely,
(Anwar Ahmad)
Dr. Anjam Hameed,
Director,
National Language Promotion Department 
Islamabad
Now National language Promotion Department

































Specimen English
Letter from Mir Abdul Hameedr, Director
Staff Training Institute, 
Services and General Administration Department, Azad Government of State of Jammu and Kashmir to
Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Deputy Secretary, Prime Minister's Secretariat 
Staff Training Institute
Services and General Administration	Director
Azad Government of State of Jammue and Kashmir Tel.051-9255562
Muzaffarabad
No: STI  Muzaffarabad, 15th Aprit, 1996
Dear Jamshaid Alam Sahib,
Assalam-o-Alaikum,
I was deeply shocked to hear about the death of your mother. 
I pray to Great and Glorious God to bestow upon his mercy and help you and other relatives to bear this great shock ameen (so it be)
Wasalam,
Yours sincerely,
(Mir Abdul Hameed)
Specimen English
Letter from Major General Haroon Sikandar Pasha, 
Director General, National Accountability Bureau Sindh,
Karachi Cantt. to Mr. Jamshaid Alam,
Director, National Security Council.
Major General Haroon Sikandar Pasha
Director General 
National Accountability Bureau
 Sindh, Karachi Cantonment
Tel.051-9255856
PF/DO No.13736 11February 2004
Mr. Jamshaid Alam,
Director,
National Security Council Secretariat  
Cabinet Block, Islamabad.
Dear Jamshaid Sahib,
Aslam-o-Alaikum, 
Your sharing of our grief on the sad demise of my beloved mother has been a source of solace and strength for me and my family. 
I shall remain indebted for the comforting gesture in our hour of distress. 
I request you for continued prayers for mother's soul.
Yours sincerely,
Major Gen. Haroon Sikandar Pasha
Specimen English
Condolence Letter: Earthquake in ------(name of country)-------
(Letter from Mr. -------------, the President of  ------(name of country)-------
Pakistan to  Mr.------------------ the   President  of  ---------(name of country)-------)
The President
Place, date:-------------------
Excellency,
I am deeply shocked and grieved at the loss of our ---------------brethren and damage to property caused by the severe earthquake that hit -----name of country------to day.
2. On behalf of the people and Government of -------------- and on my own behalf, I would like to convey our deep sympathies to the bereaved families and to all those who have been affected by this calamity. 
3. We are sure that the resilient people of -------------- will recover from the aftermaths of this disaster in the shortest possible time.
4. At this difficult time, we stand by the great ---------------people and assure them of our full support and solidarity.
Please accept, Excellency, the assurance of my highest consideration.
(----name----)President
------(name of country)-------
His Excellency
Mr.------------------------President
-----name of country-----
-----name of capital------ 
Speciman English
Death of the President-----name of counrty ------in a Plane Crash 
(Condolence Letter  from the Prime Minister ----name of country----to his Counterpart
The Prime Minister
No.----------------------------					           Place, --------------date-------------
Dear -------------------------,
I am extremely shocked and saddened to receive news that His Excellency President -----------------and the First lady, along with many other dignitaries were killed in a plane crash in --------------today.
2. On this very sad moment, on behalf of the Government and people of ---------------, allow me to convey to your Excellency and through you to the government and people of ------------as well as the bereaved families, my deepest sympathy and profound condolences for such a huge loss in this most unfortunate and tragic accident.
Yours sincerely
(----------name----------)
His Excellency,
Mr.----------------,
Prime Minister,
-----name of counrty ------
-----name of capital ------
Specimen English
Expression of Sympathy Over the Tragic Incident 
(Letter from Mr. ---------------- Prime Minister 
--------(name of country)------- to Mr. --------------Prime Minister ---------name of country---------) 
 Prime Minister
NO.-------- Islamabad   Date:--------
Honorable Mr.-----------------------
Prime Minister,
Name of Country------------
Name of Capital-------------
Dear Mr.----------------------,
Please accept, Excellency, my heartfelt sympathy over the tragic incident last ----------------during the celebrations of the traditional ----------------- Festival.
1. I would also request to convey my condolence and solidarity to the families of these deceased in such tragic circumstances, as well as my wishes for the swift recovery of those who were injured.
2. In these moments of deep sorrow, the people of --------------, may count on all our support and affection.
Yours sincerely
Prime Minister
Specimen English
Letter of thanks on Condolence Letter 
(Letter from Mr.--------------- Prime Minister  --------(name of country)-------, to Mr. -----------------
 Primne Minister, ------name of country-------)
Honorable Prime Minister
Place,  date---------------
Dear Mr--------------------
I am profoundly touched by your kind message of sympathy on the loss and injury of hundreds of people in tragedy occurred on the night of ------date------, the last day of our traditional --------------- Festival.
On behalf of the Government of -----------------and the bereaved families, I would like to deeply thank your Excellency for sharing with us this profound grief.
Yours sincerely,
(---------name----------)
Prime Minister
His Excellency ------------------
Prime Minister,
---------name of Country-------
---------name of capital--------
Specimen English
Condolence Letter
(Letter from Mr.--------------- Prime Minister 
--------(name of country)------- to his Counterpart)
Prime Minister
Place, date--------------------	
Dear Prime Minister --------------------,
It is with much sorrow that I have learned of the passing away of His Majesty------------. 	Since the accession in throne in -----)name of country(-----, His majesty -------)name(-------worked tirelessly for the good of ----)name of country(----, and its people. 
He was an inspiration to many people who want to serve their countries. 
His death leaves us all with a sense of loss.
2. On behalf of the people of ----(name of country)---- and myself, please accept our deepest condolences to you and a grieving nation.
Yours sincerely,
(---------name---------)
Prime Minister
His Excellency Mr.----------------------,
Prime Minister,
------name of country-------
------name of  capital-------
Specimen English
(Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister,----name of country----
to his counterpart on receiving a condolence letter)
Prime Minister,
Place, date-----------------------
Excellency,
I wish to thank you for your kind message of condolence over the demise of my ------name of relative------. Your words of sympathy have greatly helped in sustaining us at this moment of your grief.
Please accept, Excellency, the assurance of my highest esteem and regards.
Yours sincerely,
(-------name-------)
His Excellency
Mr.----------------------------
Prime Minister
----name of the country-----
----name of the capital------
Specimen English
Letter of Sympathy from the Prime , -----name of country----,
to the Prime Minister, -----name of country-----
The Prime Minister
Place, date------------------
Dear----------------,
I was deeply shocked to hear of the devastation caused by ------------- and in particular the tragic loss of lives. 
I offer my profound sympathies and would ask you to pass these on to the families of those affected.
2. ----(name of country)----- stands ready to offer you any assistance that may be required at this difficult time.
Yours sincerely,
(-----name-----)
His Excellency
Mr.---------------
Prime Minister
-----name of country------
-----name of capital-------
Chapter No 10
Conference (Invitation Letter, Acceptance and Regrets)
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note (Regional Organizations)											   
Specimen English												   
(Invitation Letter from the Prime Minister ---(name of country)----- to the Prime Minister ----name of country---- for Participation in the Conference)
Specimen English 
(Inability to Attend the Meeting---Letter from the Prime Minister ---(name of country)----- to his Counterpart)
Specimen English												   
(Reply to the Invitation: Inability to attend the Conference)
Specimen English												  
(Letter of Regrets to Speak in the Conference owing to a Longstandng Committment)
Specimen English												  
(Conference of the Association of SAARC Speakers and Parliamentarians National Assembly of Pakistan)
Introductory  Note
(Keynote Address, Keynote Speech at a Conference/Plenary Session)
Specimen English												  
(Acceptance of Invitation for Speech at the Opening Plenary of the ------------
Specimen English												  
(Inability to Attend the Conference)
Regional Organizations












Specimen English
(Invitation for participation in the conference letter from the Prime Minister
---name of country----- to the Prime Minister----name of country---- 
The Prime Minister
Place, date----------------
Your Excellency,
It is my utmost pleasure to courteously extend an invitation to you to come to the ----(name of country)--- as an honored guest and I am pleased to invite you in your capacity as Prime Minister of ----(name of country)--- and chair of ---(name of organization)--- to participate in the ----th Global Meeting of Regional Organizations, to be held from -------to------- in ----(name of city)--- , ----(name of country)--- during the Summit on Global Agenda.
2.	Convened by the ----(name of the organization)---- and the Government of the ----(name of country)--- on the subject----------------this unprecedented meeting is a direct response to the growing mandate and impact of regional organizations worldwide.
3. In a special program, leaders of key regional organization will gather as a global community for the first time to share best practices and discuss key challenges and risks. 
Moreover, they will have a unique opportunity to articulate mew models for accelerating global cooperation.
4. Your leadership and the achievements are widely recognized, and I would be delighted if you would join us in the ----(name of country)--- 
With profound regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-------name------)
Prime Minister
His Excellency Mr. -----------------
Prime Minister,
-----(name of country)-----
-----(name of capital)------
Specimen English
Inability to Attend the Meeing
(Letter from the Prime Minister ---(name of country)----- to his Counterpart)
The Prime Minister
Place, date ---------------
Dear Mr. ----------------------,
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt with thanks of your letter dated -------------- inviting me to attend the -----(name of the meeting)----- which will take place on ----(date)---- in ----name place/country---.
While expressing my sincere thanks for your kind invitation, I very much regret to inform you that due to my scheduled commitments at home, I will be unable to attend the above said important Event.
I highly appreciate your utmost effort in organizing such an important meeting to bring together the Leaders and Experts from different regions to share the best practices and discuss regional cooperation for ------------.
May I wish you a great success in organizing a fruitful meeting. 
With warmest regards,
Yours sincerely, 
(----------name----------)
Prime Minister
His Excellency---------------------,
Prime Minister
----name of country----
---name of capital----
Specimen English
(Reply to the Invitation: Inability to attend the Conference)
The President
Place, date -------------------
Dear  President-------------------,
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt with thanks of your letter dated-------------, inviting me to attend the High-level Segment of the United Nations Conference on -----(subject)----- from ----to------ at ---(place)----
While expressing my sincere thanks for your kind invitation, I very much regret to inform you that due to my tight schedule, I will not be able to attend the above-mentioned important event. 
I have, however, designated Mr.--------------, Minister for Foreign affairs to participate in the event.
3. May I wish the Event a great success and fruitful result.
Yours sincerely,
---(name)----
President
---(name of country)----
His Excellency Mr.---------------
President
----(name of country)----
----(name of capital)-----
Specimen English
(Letter of Regrets to Speak in the 
Conference owing to a Longstandng Committment)
The Prime Minister
Place, date---------------
Dear Mr. -------------------,
I wish to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated------------------, extending to me an invitation to speak in --------------- under the auspices of the---------------- on -----date----.
2. It is with deep regret that I inform you of my inability to accept this kind invitation owing to a commitment of long-standing on that date. Indeed, my calendar for the first half of ----year---- is already completely filled.
Yours sincerely,
(---------name--------)
Mr.-----------------
Designation,
----name of organization-----
-----name of city-----
Specimen English
(Conference of the Association of SAARC Speakers and Paliamentarians)
National Assembly of Pakistan
----------name----------
Speaker
Islamabad, date-----------------
Dear Speaker,
On behalf of the parliament of Pakistan, it is my honor to invite Your Excellency to lead as-member Parliamentary delegation (including one women) and Secretary General of your House as will as two officials for participation in the ----conference of the Association of SAARC Speakers and Parliamentarians   in Islamabad from ----------to -----------.
2. The meeting may discuss the following subject:
3. Conference documents including provisional program (detailing arrival/departure) and information circular are being sent.
We look forward to welcoming your delegation in Pakistan.
With warm regards,
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
Speaker
-----name parliament----
HE Mr.---------------------------
Speaker,
-----(name of parliament)-----
-----(name of capital)-----------
(Keynote Address, Keynote Speech at a Conference/Plenary Session)






Specimen English
(Acceptance of Invitation for Speech at the Opening Plenary of the ------------)
-----------name------------
-------designation--------
No.-----------Place, date-----------------------
Dear Mr.-------------------,
On behalf of the -----name of speaker----- I would like to thank you for your letter of -----date------ inviting -----name of speaker----- to speak at the opening plenary of the --------------, to be held at the ------place ------ at -----time----on ----date-----
2. The--------------------is very pleased to accept this invitation. He looks forward to addressing this distinguished gathering on -------date-------
Your sincerely,
(-----name------)
designation
Mr----------------------
designation
-----name of organization-----
-------city---------
(Inability to Attend the Conference)
Name--------------------
Designation-------------
Tel-------------------------
Islamabad, date----------------
Dear -------------------,
The Prime Minister has directed me to convey to you his best wishes for the success of the conference and to thank you for the invitation to deliver a key note address at the------------ Conference, at----- name of city/country-----, on (date).
2. Unfortunately at precisely the dates of your conference the Prime Minister will be paying an official visit to --------------, hence he/she will be unable to attend.
3. We have no doubt that the Conference will be a greatly rewarding experience and lend momentum to the very important and necessary dialogue between-----name of the region----- and ----------------Government and business leaders.
designation
Mr.----------------------
----name of the society-----
----name of the country------
-----name of the city---------

Conference Paper, Presentation or Talk
(List of Contents)
International Conference: Gender Mainstreaming and the MDG's
(Invitation Letter from Conference Secretary to the Senior Interregional Advisor, UNO, New york)
Presentatin of Paper in the Conference
(Invitation Letter from Danish Gah Azad Islamic, Tabrez, Iran to Dr Anjum Hameed, Director, NLPD)
Invitation Letter to attend the International Scientific Conference
Advanced Technological Conference
(Letter of Thanks from the Programme Director ---name---- University to the Participant on Successful  Presentation
Conference Paper, Talk, Presentation













(Invitation Letter from Conference Secretary to the Senior Inter-regional Advisor, UNO, New York)
Ministry of Women Development
All Pakistan Women's                      
United Nation
Government of Pakistan Association APWA
International Conference- Gender Mainstreaming and the MDG's 
February 17, 2005
Mrs. Najet Karaborni 
Senior Interregional Advisor
NGO Section ECOSOC
Room DC2-1736, Two UN Plaza
New York NY 10017
Subject: International  Conference: Gender Mainstreaming and the MDG's
Dear Ms. Karaborni 
We are pleased to invite you to the "International Conference: Gender Mainstreaming, and the MDGs, scheduled on 28-3 0March 200 5in Islamabad, Pakistan. 
This Conference will be a joint effort of the Ministry of Women Development, Government of Pakistan and the All Pakistan Women's Association (APWA), in collaboration with several UN Agency partners and donors.
2. The Prime Minister of Pakistan will inaugurate the Conference and the President of Pakistan, is expected to address the Closing Ceremony. 
The invited international dignitaries include Kofi Annan, Cherie Blair, Hillary Clinton and Sonia Gandhi. 
3. The Conference deliberations will be on the following themes: 
Gender Equality and women's Empowerment
Gender Equality, Human Rights and Peace
Gender Equality and Poverty Alleviation
Gender Equality and Health 
Gender Equality and Education 
4. This Conference will examine international, regional and national 'best practices' towards achievintg the Millennium Development Goals and the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, to chart away forward towards achieving gender equality and human development. 
5. The deliverables will be a set of substantive policy and action-oriented recommendations that will be leveraged through over 30 0participants drawn from within SAARC countries and beyond. 
6. It is an honor and privilege to invite you to participate in this Conference as Speaker for the Workshop on "Gender  Equality and Women's  Empowerment" and "Gender  Equality and Poverty Alleviation". 
We would also like to request you to head the drafting committee for the provisional recommendations and the final Conference Report. 
Towards this end, we request your presence from 2 0March to  1April, 2005, 
28th March 2005, Islamabad, Pakistan 
Conference Secretariat
APWA Building Street 15,
G-7/2, Islamabad, Pakistan
Ph. -----------------------------
E.mail.------------------------
Website-----------------------
Presentatin of Paper in the Conference (Invitation Letter from Danish Gah Azad Islamic, Tabrez, Iran to Dr. Anjum Hameed, Director, NLPD)
Professor Dr. Anjum Hameed,
Asslam-o- Alaikum
It is informed that the Academic Body has approved your paper titled "Role of Literature and Poets in the Mental Growth and Awareness of People" 
Exalted Madam, you are therefore, requested to present your paper orally on the date as mentioned in this Invitation. Letter and take action accordingly.
Date:  5August 2018
Place: Iran, Tabrez, Danish Gah Azad Islamic, Tabrez.
Dr. Ehsaan Shakiri Khui
Academic Secretary
Dr. Anjum Hameed,
Director,
National Language Promotion Department,
Islamabad
(Invitation Letter to attend the International Scientific Conference 
----name of organization-----
Place, date-----------------------
Dear--------------------
We are pleased to invite you to the International Scientific Conference on DIRECTIONS OF CHANGE IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION which will be held in the --------------, university of -----------------on ----date-----
2. The idea behind the conference is that there is a need to connect the domains of science and practice in these areas of public administration---- especially in the field of delivery of public services----that have recently undergone rapid change caused, on the one hand, by increasing social expectations and on the other by the budgetary constraints These factors. 
Have implications for the development and application of legislation in the area of administrative, financial, public procurement, civil and labour laws. 
Hence the main purpose of the Conference is to provide a forum for exchange of ideas between representations of theory and practice.
3. In the conference research papers focused among others on:
development and application of effective administrative and legal solutions.
broadly understood financial law.
innovative public procurement procedures and public----private partnership.
new solutions in the field of office procedure.
4. It will be necessary to make proposals de lege lata and de lege ferenda in order to give the scientific efforts of the conference a practical dimension.
5. The Organizers also request you to invite anyone interested to attend the conference.
Yours sincerely,
(-------name-------)
Mr.-------------------------------
------designation------
------name of institution------
------name of country--------
Advanced Technological Conference (Letter from the Programme Director  ---name---- University to the Participant on Successful  Presentation
----name of organization-----
Place, date-----------------------
Dear--------------------
I want to thank you personally for taking the time to make the Advanced Technological in the University of --------------, -----name of city------ such a success. 
Your presentation sparked considerable discussion among all the conference participants form students and faculty to government agency personnel. People were overwhelmingly appreciative of your willingness to share your information.
The data you presented was of tremendous interest in light of the conference focus on entrepreneurial and 21st century skills for the technical work force.
I know that you have very busy schedule, and want to again thank you for your support.
Yours sincerely, 
(--------name--------)
Program director
Mr.-----------------------,

-----name of organization-----
-----name of city------

Congratulatory Letter
(List of Contents)
Congratulations on Victory in Elections 
(Letter from the Prime Minister to the President Elect ----name of country----)
Appointment as Prime Minister
(Congratulatory letter from the Prime Minister, -----name of country----- to the Prime Minister, -----name of country-----)
Appointment as Prime Minister
(Congratulatory letter from the Prime Minister, -----name of country----- to the Prime minister, -----name of country-----)
Appointment as Minister for Foreign Affairs
(Congratulatory letter form Minister for Foreign Affairs ----name of country----- to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, -----name of country----)
Appointment as Minister for Foreign Affairs
(Congratulatory letter form Minister for Foreign Affairs ----name of country----- to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, -----name of country----)
Appointment as Secretary General, United Nations
(Letter of Congratulations to Mr.---------- Secretary General Designate of the United Nations from the President, -----name of country----)
(Congratulatory Letter on Re-appointment as Prime Minister)
(Letter of Thanks from the Prime Minister on Receiving Congratulatory Letter form the President, -----name of country----)
Reappointment as Prime Minister
(Congratulatory letter form the Prime Minister ----name of country----- to the Prime Minister, -----name of country----)
(Congratulatory Letter from the Prime Minister to Mr.---------------- boxer on receiving Gold Madels in world championship)
Congratulatory Letter from the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister- Elect of  -------name of country--------
Congratulations on a Successful Event
(Letter from the President -----name of country----, to the Head of the Organization, Host of the Event)
Congratulatory Letter








Congratulations on Victory in Elections 
(Letter from the Prime Minister to the President Elect ----name of country----)
The Prime Minister
Place, date--------------------
Dear Mr. President-Elect
Please accept my warm congratulation on your victory and my best wishes for your success as you prepare to take up the responsibilities and challenges of your high office.
2. As you embark upon your new responsibilities, I wish to assure you and the people of ----------- of the continued friendship and sympathetic interest of the ------------------- Government and people.
3. I look forward to working with you not only to develop closer relations between our countries but also to concert our efforts in the cause of peace and the brotherhood of all peoples.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
Prime Minister
His Excellency Mr.----------------
President- elect
----name of country----
-----name of capital------
Appointment as Prime Minister
Congratulatory letter from the Prime Minister ----name of country----- to the Prime minister, -----name of country-----)
The Prime Minister
Place, date--------------------
Dear  Prime Minister (name),
On behalf of the Government and people of ---------------------, I warmly congratulate you on your appointment as Prime Minister of the ---------------.
2. -----Name of country----- has made great progress in the last decade. 
I am confident that ------------ will continue to grow and prosper under your leadership.
3. As hubs in our respective regions ---name of sending country---- and ----name of receiving country----- are natural partners. 
There is great potential for collaboration in diverse areas between our two countries. 
I look to award to growing our ties and taking our relations forward for the mutual benefit of our two peoples.
4. I wish you every success in your new appointment and hope to meet you again soon.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
Prime Minister
----name of country-----
His Excellency Mr. ------------------,
Prime Minister,
----name of country-----
----name of capital-----
Appointment as Prime Minister
(Congratulatory letter from the Prime Minister, -----name of country----- to the Prime Minister, -----name of country-----)
The Prime Minister
Place, date--------------------
Dear   Mr.------------------
I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as Prime Minister of the ----------------. 
This is also an opportunity to congratulate the ---------------party which---under your leadership---won the elections and will have governmental responsibility. 
You know that this is a result which has many fans in the ----name of sending country---- and I am among them.
I wish you every success in forming a government and let me assure you that I am prepared to work with you in strengthening the bilateral relations between our two countries in all areas and most importantly--- in supporting our common interests in the -----name of regional organization---- and at the other international forums.
Should you be able to attend the ----name of the summit---- in ---name of capital----- on -------- in which I will take part as head of the ----name of country----- delegation. 
I would be pleased to meet with you and continue with our discussion in more detail.
Once again, please accept my congratulations and my best wishes for your success as new Prime Minister of ----name of country----. 
I am looking forward to meeting you soon.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
President of --------
His Excellency Mr.---------------
Prime Minister,
----name of country-----
----name of capital------
Appointment as Minister for Foreign Affairs
(Congratulatory letter form Minister for Foreign Affairs ----name of country----- to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, -----name of country----)
Government of --------------
Ministry of foreign Affairs
Place, date-------------------
Excellency,
I have the honour to extend to your Excellency my sincere congratulations and warmest wishes on your Excellency's appointment as Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
----name of country---- and ----name country----have enjoyed a long history of friendship. 
I am confident that there is high potential to tap and expand in many areas of our cooperation. 
I look forward to working closely with your Excellency in  further strengthening our partnership both at bilateral and multilateral levels for the mutual benefits of our two countries and peoples. 
I wish your Excellency every success in all your endeavours. 
Please accept my best regards.
Yours sincerely, 
(-----name --------)
Minister for Foreign Affairs
His Excellency Mr.---------------------
Minister for Foreign Affairs
----------name of country--------
------------name of capital----------
Appointment as Minister for Foreign Affairs
(Congratulatory letter form Minister for Foreign Affairs ----name of country----- to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, -----name of country----)
Government of --------------
Ministry of foreign Affairs
Place, date-------------------
Dear Mr.--------------
I have the great pleasure to express my warmest congratulations to your excellency on the happy occasion of your appointment as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the ----name of country-----.
I am convinced that under your leadership, the relations of friendship and cooperation between our two countries will be further developed for the mutual interest of our wo peoples.
With profound regards, 
Yours sincerely, 
(-----name --------)
Minister for Foreign Affairs
His Excellency Mr. ---------------------
Minister for foreign Affairs
----------name of countries--------
------------name of capital----------
Appointment as Secretary General, United Nations
(Letter of Congratulations to Mr.---------- Secretary General Designate of the United Nations from the President, -----name of country----)
No.-----------------------								       Place, date------------------
Dear------------------------,
Allow me to extend congratulations on your appointment as Secretary General of the United Nations. 
I send my best wishes for your continued wisdom, strength and commitment in performing the important and responsible duties of this position.
2. I am very pleased that your long-standing experience and determined efforts to provide support and care for refugees around the world as well as to mobilize international assistance for the displaced have been highly evaluated and rightly so. 
In the face of the migration crisis, your leaderships will definitely help to bring the international community together for finding a united response to many critical problems of today.
3. The ongoing threat of terrorism, climate change, people in zones of conflict  and forcibly displaced persons, children who are unable to go to school, women exposed to violence, and many other serious challenges require that the United Nations stand strong in its efforts and moral leadership. 
Disrespect for the fundamental principles of the United Nations and international law most painfully affects innocent civilians, especially women and children. 
There is still lack of progress in fully engaging women in political, social and economic processes, ensuring their equal opportunities and rights worldwide.
4. On the other hand, the constructive international dialogue on the 2030. Agenda for sustainable development and the historic success of the Paris Climate Agreement give hope that the international community recognizes our joint responsibility for dealing with today's global challenges. You now have the difficult but very important duty of encouraging-continuously and tirelessly member states to seek compromises and convincing them that common solutions benefit us all.
5. I firmly believe that together we will continue the tradition of cooperation built on trust and respect between ----name of the country--- and the United Nations, which will serve as a solid foundation for our future work during your term in office.
6. I wish you the best of success in your new challenging responsibilities. 
Please accept the assurances of my highest consideration.
(--------name--------)
President
----name of the country-----
Mr. -----------------------------
Secretary General Designate
United Nations,
Newyork
Specimen English
(Congratulatory Letter on Re-appointment as Prime Minister)
The Pime Minister
Place, date-------------------
Dear Prime Minister------------------,
On behalf of the government of -----name of country---- and my on behalf, I would like to congratulate you on your re-appointment as Prime Minister of the ---name of country----.
I hope that ----name of receiving country---- will continue to play an active role in world affairs. 
----name sending of country--- and ----name of receiving country---- share longstanding and close ties. 
We cooperate in many areas including defense, trade and investment. 
Our friendly relations are underpinned by the strong people-to- people ties and the historical and cultural links we share. 
I am sure that this warm partnership will continue and strengthen under your leadership.
I look forward to working closely with you, as well as meeting you again soon at the ----------------summit to continue our conversation. 
I hope you will find an opportunity to visit ----name of country---- before too long.
Yours sincerely,
(-----name------)
Prime Minister
His Excellency Mr.-----------------,
Prime Minister,
----name of country----
----name of capital-----
(Letter of Thanks from the Prime Minister on Receiving Congratulatory Letter form the President, -----name of country----)
The Prime Minister
Place, date-----------------
Dear Mr. President,
Thank you very much for your kind congratulations on my appointment as Prime Minister of ----name of country----.
I am looking forward to our future co-operation, based on a long-standing tradition of friendship and mutual respect and designed to continue and strengthen the cordial relations between ----name of the sending countries---- and the ----name of receiving country---- 
With profound regards,
Yours sincerely,* 
(----name----)
President
----name of country-----
His Excellency
President
----name of country-----
---name of capital------
"Dear Mr. President" may be written by hand
Yours sincerely may be written by hand
(Letter of Thanks from Federal Minister for ------------ on receiving a congratulatory letter from a citizen)
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of --Minister for -----------------------
(------------------Division)
Islamabad, date------------------
My Dear-----------------------,
I am really grateful for the sentiments you have conveyed to me on assuming the charge of the office of Minister for.
May Allah give me the courage to come up to the expectations of the nation.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)

Mr.------------------------------
Address-------------------------
(Congratulatory Letter from the Prime Minister to Mr.---------------- boxer  on receiving Gold Medals in worldchampionship)
The Prime Minister
Place, date------------------
Dear-------------------,
I congratulate you on many successes in ----------------. I understand that you have recently won gold medals in several different age groups at the world championships and that you have won over 5 0medals this year. 
This is a fantastic achievement.
2. I wish you best of luck in ------------------and look forward to hearing of more successes for you in the near future.
Yours sincerely
(------name------)
Mr.-----------------------
address------------------
Congratulatory Letter from the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister-Elect of -------name of country--------
The Prime Minister
Place,date----------------------
Dear Prime Minister elect,
On behalf of the Government and people of --------name of country---------, I congratulate you on your election as --------------'s Prime Minister. 
2. -------name on sending country--------and -------name of receiving-------share excellent bilateral ties. 
Our friendship is underpinned by regular high-level exchanges and wide-ranging cooperation in many fields, including trade and investment, defence and cultural exchanges.
3. We also cooprate closely to promote regional peace and prosperity through multinational forums. 
Next year, our two countries will celebrate------------years of diplomatic relations.
4. It is an auspicious milestone which I hope can be a springboard to raise our bilateral partnership to new heights.
5. I look forward to working with you to enhance our bilateral ties, and hope that you will visit------name of sending country-------at the earliest opportunity. 
I wish you every success in your new appointment.
Yours sincerely,
Congratulations on a Successful Event
(Letter from the President -----name of country----,to the Head of the Organization, Host of the Event)
The President
Place, date-------------------
Dear-----------------,
Thank you for the invitation and warm hospitality enjoyed at the -------------------. 
It was great to share in this important and exciting event. 
Please extend our gratitude to your colleagues who helped make this happen as I know something of this magnitude takes a great team.
2. The event was well organized, and I understand that -----name of person------ of ------name of the organization-----, was instrumental in ensuring the day went flawlessly.
3. I extend my sincere congratulations to you and the ----name of the organization (host)----- team on winning the Annual Award of the -----------------.
4. Please accept my best wishes for great success.
Yours sincerely,
(-----name --------)
Mr.--------------------,
----name of the organization-----
Address-------------------------------

Constituency of the Member National Assembly:
(a) Duties and Responsibilities of the MNAs
(b) Importance of the Letters Received  by the
Prime Minister/Ministers from the members of  Parliament and the Public
(List of Contents)
Letter from the Public Representatives and Supporters to the Prime Minister Parliamentarians, Concillors etc.
Proposal for Construction of a new Airport 
(Letter from the Members National Assembly to the Prime Minister)
Attack on the Crowded place
(Letter from the Member National Assembly to the Prime Minister inviting him to Visit the Place)
Letter from the Prime Minister to the Chairman, Advisory Committee in response to his private letter)
(Letter from the Prime Minister in response to a letter from the Senator)
(Reply to the Member National Assembly from the Prime Minister)
Constituency of the Member National Assembly 
Duties and Responsibilities of the MNA













Importance of the Letters Received  by the Prime Minister/ Ministers from the members of  Parliament and the Public









Letter from the Public Representatives to the Prime Minister 
Honourable Prime Minister
----name of country-----
-----name of capital------
Dear Prime Minister,
We are writing this letter to express our deepest concerns about proposal to close the Maternity Department at 'A' Hospital which serves people in our constituencies.
2. This move will be very detrimental to local health services. 
It will place unbearable pressure on the other two hospitals (B and C)) in the area. 
In fact both the hospitals do not have adequate number of staff in the Maternity Department. 
The understaffing at B and C Hospitals have put mothers and babies at risk. 
The poor quality care has led to the death of a mother and baby.
3. We have come to know that the closure of Maternity Department at Hospital 'A' is being taken due to non-availability of funds.
4. The area covered by the 'A' Hospital has one of the fastest growing populations in the country. 
In these areas, ten thousands babies were born last year.
5. As a result of new housing projects in the ----name of area---- and change of population in the ---name of area----, birth of babies is growing 500 more each year.
6. The local population strongly oppose the move of closing the Maternity Department at 'A' Hospital and tens of thousands people of our constituencies have signed a petition against it.
7. Ministry for Health has now prepared proposals for regular provision of funds to the 'A' Hospital so that the Maternity Department at this hospital is not closed.
8. We welcome these proposals but request you to intervene in the matter and take positive steps to halt the closure of the Maternity Department so that the local population in our constituencies is not deprived of the health care services which are already under stretched. 
With best wishes.
Yours sincerely,
Signatures/Names of Public Representatives 
Proposal for Construction of a new Airport 
(Letter from the Public Representatives to the Prime Minister)
Place, date ------------------
Dear Prime Minister,
We are writing to you this letter as a matter of urgency to seek a meeting with you. We want the government to clarify its position on the possible construction of a new airport in the ----name of place----
2. We have come to know from the reports in the media that the government proposes to consider the construction of a new airport in or around the ---name of place----.
3. It appears that the public of our constituencies does not support the proposal for the construction of the new airport in ------name of place-------. 
If the proposed airport is constructed in----name of place------, it will have an enormous  effect on the lives of hundreds of thousands of residents living in this wide area and devastate an area of global environmental significance.
4. We strongly urge the government not to proceed with this proposal. Instead, they should consider to utilize fully the capacity of the existing airports in ----name of place---and ----name of palce----.
5. We look forward to meeting with you as soon as possible so that we may discuss this urgent matter.
Yours sincerely,
Signatures and names of Public Representatives
Attack on the Crowded place
(Letter from the Member of National Assembly to the Prime Minister inviting him to visit the area) 
Name------------------------
Member National Assembly
Tel----------------------------
Place, date----------------
Dear Prime Minister,
I am writing this letter regarding the horrific attack on -----name of place------ in my constituency on -------date-------. The entire nation was shocked to see this attack occur one of the most vibrant areas of -----name of city-----.
Millions of people visit this area every year. It is one of the liveliest fun places filled with people from all walks of life.
2. I, and the residents of this area are very grateful to the emergency services who responded bravely and quickly, and saved many lives. 
I am also grateful to all those who acted very courageously and generously during this attack. 
I hope that their services will be recognized.
3. It would be enormously well-received if you could formally visit the area and meet some of the people directly affected. 
I hope that you will kindly arrange this visit as soon as possible.
Your sincerely
(---------name--------)

Honourable Prime minister
------name of country-----
-----name of capital-------
(Letter from the Prime Minister to the Chairman, Advisory Committee in response to his private letter)
Dear Mr.------------------,
Thank you for your private letter dated--------------about the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on -------subject--------.
2. It is very helpful to have your personal thoughts on this matter. 
We are of the same view on the importance of -------subject-------- But we shall obviously have to consider carefully the financial resources. 
Mr. -------------------will contact you shortly about our conclusions.
Your sincerely,
(---------name---------)
Mr.--------------------,
Chairman,
Advisory Committee on------subject--------
(Letter from the Prime Minister in response to a letter from Senator------------.)
Prime Minster
Place, date---------------------
My dear--------------------,
Many thanks for your letter dated----------------, which I have just seen.
2. Now I am back in Islamabad. 
I hope to be in touch with you as soon as possible about a time for us to meet. 
However, as you can imagine, things are a little hectic since apart from Government work, I am receiving literally thousands of letters every day. 
3. However, I will be in touch to arrange a time.
With warm regards,
Yours,
(---------name--------)
Senator ------name-------
Address---------------------
(Reply to Member National Assembly from the Minister of State)
Minister of State for -------------
Place, date----------------------------------
No--------------------------
Dear Mr.-----------------,
I am in receipt of your D.O. letter No-------------- dated-------------addressed to Hon'ble Prime Minister with a copy to me regarding -------------------.
2. I appreciate the concerns expressed by you in your letter. 
The inputs given by you will certainly help in resolution of this issue.
3. I am having the matter looked into. 
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-----name-------)
Mr----------------------,
Member,National Assembly of Pakistan, 
Islamabad.

Council of Common Interests(CCI)
Letter from Secretary, Ministry of Inter Provincial Coordination (IPC Division/Secretariat of CCI) to all the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge
Council of Common Interest































(Electricity)








(Meetings of the Council)






























Letter from Secretary, Ministry of Inter Provincial 
Meeting of the Council of Common Interests
Coordination (IPC Division/Secretariat of CCI) to all the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of Inter Provincial Coordination
(IPC Division Secretariat of CCI)
Secretary
Tel.-----------------
D.O. No.-----------Islamabad, date-------------------
Subject:  Submission of Cases for the Next meeting of Council of Common Interests (CCI)
My Dear,
Article 154(1) of the Constitution of Islamic Republic of Pakistan provides that the Council of Common Interests (CCI) shall formulate and regulate policies in relation to matters enumerated in Part-II of the Federal Legislative List and shall exercise supervision and control over related institutions. 
2. Article 154(3) inter-alia, provides that the Council shall meet at least once in ninety days. 
The last meeting of the Council was held on -------------and the next is due to be held on or before -----------------.
3. You are requested to submit your Summaries accordingly in the light of Rule of Procedure of CCI, 201 0available on www.ipc.gov.pk. 
Manner of Submission of Cases for the CCI has been provided in Rules  9 and 10 of the Rules ibid. 
Required consultation with relevant stakeholders/provincial governments and Law and Justice Division be done where needed prior to submission. 
4. It would be much appreciated if the Summary for the CCI is provided well in time, latest by ---------------- 50 copies each of the Summary are needed for circulation among the members.
With Regards,
Yours sincerely,
All Federal Secretaries Additional Secretaries Incharge of Ministries/Divisions (as per list attached)

Covering Letter
Letter dated 7th July 198 5from Mr. Zahur Azar, Cabinet Secretary to all the Federal Ministers and Ministers of State
Covering Letter
	























Letter dated 7th July 198 5from Mr. Zahur Azar, Cabinet Secretary to all the Federal Ministers and Ministers of State
Cabinet Secretary
Cabinet Division
Tel.------------Government of Pakistan
No. 10/CN/85 Rawalpindi, 7th July 1985
My Dear Minister,
A few recommendations of the Report of the Committee on "Revitalization" of Revenue Administrations were presented at the Cabinet meeting held on 26th June 1985, especially the recommendations concerning "Simplification of Judicial Procedures" 
Some of the Ministers expressed an interest to see copies of the Report.
2. Accordingly, a copy of the said Report is enclosed for your kind perusal. 
The Main Report is contained in its volume I while volume II contains the appendices.
Your sincerely,  
(Zahur Azar)
Cabinet Secretary
Federal Ministers and Ministers of State
Copy, with two copies of the Report, to Chief Minister of the Provinces
Copy, with enclosures to Secretary to the Prime Minister, for information
(Tariq Farooq)
Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet





Deteriorating Standard of English in Pakistan 
(Based on the Annual Report 201 5and Annual Report 201 6of the Federal Public Service Commission)
(Letter from Mr. Naveed Akram Cheema, Chairman, Federal Public Service Commission(FPSC) to the President, Islamic Republic of Pakistan)
Deteriorating Standard of English in Pakistan
Reference: Annual Report 201 5and Annual Report 2016 of the Federal Public Service Commission
FPSC:  Competative Examination 2015








Candidates' Performance in English (compulsory)
(Marks Obtained) 














Observations of Examiners on Performance of Candidates in Competitive  Examination 2015  
(English Essay) 










FPSC: Competitive Examination, 2016









Candidates' Performance in English (compulsory)
(Marks Obtained)

















Observations of Examiners on Performance of Candidates in Compititive Examination 2015
(English Essay)







English (Precis & Composition)











Annual Report 2016
(D.O. Letter from Mr. Naveed Akram Cheema,  Chairman, Federal Public Service Commission(FPSC) to Mr. Mamnoon Hussain President, Islamic Republic of Pakistan)
(Annual Report 2016)
Naveed Akram Cheema
Chairman,
Tel-------------------------
No-----------Islamabad,  date----------------
Mr. President,
I have the privilege to present the Annual Report of the Federal Public Service Commission (FPSC) for the year 2016, in accordance with Section  9 of the FPSC Ordinance 1977 which, inter alia, provides that a copy of this report is to be laid before the National Assembly and the Senate. 
The report covers functions, activities, observations and recommendations of the Commission from 1st January to 31st December, 2016. 
I. Statutory Functions of FPSC
2.  Under the guiding principles of Articles 18, 25, 27, 34, 36, and 38 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan 1973 and under Section  7 of the Federal Public Service Commission Ordinance 1977, the Commission performs its statutory functions, wherein it ensures: 
a. Conducting tests and examinations for recruitment of persons to All-Pakistan Services, the civil services of the federation and civil posts in connection with affairs of the federation in basic scales 1 6and above or equivalent;
b. Tendering advice to the President of Pakistan on methods and principles to be followed in making initial appointments, appointments by promotion to posts in BS 1 8and above and transfer from one service or occupational group to another;
c. Holding examinations for promotion and;
d. Performing quasi-judicial functions by taking decisions on representations and review petitions of aggrieved candidates.
3. On 17th February 2016, the Prime Minister of Pakistan constituted a committee under the headship of Mr. Zahid Hamid, the then Minister for Climate Change to deliberate on the ways and means to make the Federal Public Service Commission a vibrant body and to examine the possibility of its conversion from a statutory to a constitutional body.
Deliberations of the committee with key stakeholders are underway. 
The Commission takes a leadership role in strengthening and revamping the recruitment system to build a competent human resource base for the civil services of Pakistan. 
While continuing; to deliver its core services, the Commission has made significant progress in enhancing and fulfilling its goals and targets set forth for the year 2016. 
The Commission takes pride in the gigantic task of skillfully handling and processing 20,71 7CSS and 8,75,281 applications to the posts of BS 16 and above during the year under review. 
This report presents a detailed review of the Commission's performance, accomplishments and areas of concern during 2016, as given below: 
II. Performance Highlights
4. Globalization and technological revolution has thrown severe challenges to the traditional recruitment system during the last two decades. 
With more erudite citizenry, extremely vigilant and liberal electronic media, intense accountability of public policy makers through a vibrant judiciary, civil servants are finding themselves under ever keener scrutiny. Ubiquitous use of internet and social media has raised the level of expectations in terms of speed. 
quality and personalization of public service delivery which is the hallmark of good governance. 
This requires adoption of an efficient, transparent and merit-based system of recruitment for the civil services of Pakistan enabling the state to deliver desired public services to the citizens in a most effective and efficient manner. 
While effectively addressing growing challenges, the Federal Public Service Commission maintained trust of the public through its policies of transparency, fairness. impartiality and professionalism during the year under report. 
The statistics on the number of applications, conduct of tests/examinations, interviews and the nominations made during the year show a continued high level of employee engagement across FPSC. An overview of the core functions accomplished by the FPSC is as follows: 
i) Examinations and Tests Conducted during 2016: 
The Commission carried out and finalized the allocation of candidates to various Occupational Groups and Services on the basis of Central Superior Services (CSS) Competitive Examination(CE) 2015 and conducted the CSS CE 2016, Final Passing Out Examination (FPOE) of twelve Occupational Groups and Services which determines the final merit and inter-se seniority and Professional Screening Tests/interviews for selection against posts in BS-16 and above requisitioned by Ministries/Divisions/Departments by General Recruitment. 
Summary of the same is as follows: 
a) Central Superior Services Competitive Examination 201 5and 2016: The Commission announced final merit of CE-201 5on 24.04.2016.
Highlights of CE 2015 & 2016are as below: 
CSS CE 2015
CSS CE 2016
Total Number of Applicants
Total Candidates APpeared
Qualified in written
Finally Qualified
Vacancies Available
Candidates Allocated
Male
Female
Vacancies Carried Forward
The scheme of syllabi (1981) for competitive examination was reviewed by the Commission in 2015 in collaboration with the Higher Education Commission and country-wide Universities' professors/subject specialists. 
The Commission conducted the CSS CE 2016 based on the new syllabi which was one of the important milestones achieved during 2016. 
Under the new scheme marks of many subjects were rationalized and six new optional subjects viz Governance and Public Policy, Criminology, Gender Studies, Environmental Sciences, Anthropology and Town Planning & Urban Management were added to the list. 
Besides, Comparative Study of Major Religions was introduced for non-Muslims. 
Optional subjects were also re-grouped to provide level playing field to both students of natural sciences and social sciences. 
According to the CSS CE 2016 result, only 202 candidates qualified inwritten part of the examination. 
A total of 20717 aspirants applied but only 964 3appeared depicting that majority of them was not serious. 
The Examiners also observed a decline in general performance of candidates and shared concerns on declining standard of education.
The Examiners' Assessment Reports identified poor expression, lack of analytical skills and critical approach, inability to comprehend issues as some of the reasons for massive failures. 
To further examine the issue, the Commission constituted a Consultative Group with representation from Members of the Commission. 
Extensive consultations were held with Higher Education Commission, Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training, Capital Administration & Development Division and Provincial Education Departments to suggest measures for improvement. 
The Consultative Group in its initial findings was critical of the coaching centers/guide books/guess papers used by the candidates. It also underlined the need for improvement in standard of education. 
Members of the Commission also carried out motivational talks at well reputed national universities and kept the academia informed of the performance of the respective educational institutions in national level competitive exam. 
A summary of Examiners' Assessment Reports has also been placed on FPSC website for general information of the public and aspiring candidates.
b) Recruitment for Technical and Professional Ex-Cadre Posts: Reforms have been carried out to bring qualitative improvement in methods of general recruitment for all posts in BS-1 6and above including ex-cadre services. 
The selection process was further improved through revision of syllabi and test schemes. The objective was to make the selection more competitive and to select those candidates who were better equipped with the skills set required to perform the job. Test schemes and syllabi for 27 9recruitment cases were designed in 2016. 
Highlights of General Recruitment 2016
Number of vacancies (BS 1 6and above) processed during 2016
Applications Processed
Cancidates scheduled for interview
Candidates scheduled for personal hearing
Candidates recommended for appointment
Vacancies remained unfilled
Number of vacancies which were under process and carried over to the next year
c) Final Passing Out Exam inations held during 2016: The Commission conducted Final Passing Out Examinations for the Probationers of Occupational Groups and Services after completion of respective specialized training. 
The examination is important as it determines inter seniority in their respective Groups and Services. 
In all, 298 probationers appeared in FPOEs and only 199 qualified the examination. 
The highest pass percentage was in Police Service of Pakistan and highest failure ratios were in Inland Revenue Service and Pakistan Administrative Service.
ii) Appeals of candidates against their rejection: 
Section 7(3) (a) of the FPSC Ordinance provides opportunity of Representation and Review Petition against any decision of the Commission. 
During the period under report, the Commission afforded personal hearing to 123 5candidates and decided their representation on case to case basis. 
The candidates whose representations were accepted, were called for interview and remaining representations were dismissed. 
Under Section 7(3) (b) 52 review petitions against dismissal of representations were filed by the aggrieved candidates which were also examined and decided by the Commission in accordance with rules. 
iii) Advice on Rules for Recruitment: 
The Commission received 118 cases from government entities for approval of recruitment rules under Section  7(1) (b) of the FPSC Ordinance 1977. 
The Commission approved 35 cases, whereas  3cases were considered unfit and 80 cases were processed to remove deficiencies in consultation with the concerned government entities.
iv) Cases where implementation of Advice of the Commission was delayed: 
In  5 cases, offer of appointment was delayed by the concerned Ministry/ Division/ Department.
v) Cases where Advice of the Commission was not observed: It is mandatory for all Ministries/Divisions/Departments to solicit consent of the Commission for extension in contract appointment beyond  2 years against all civil positions. 
During the period under report,  6cases of extension in contract appointments were received in the Commission. 
In 4 cases, extension for a period of  6months was granted subject to requisitioning the respective vacancies for regular filling in terms of Rule 10 & 1 4of the Civil Servants (Appointment, Promotion and Transfer) Rules 1973, but requisitions for the said posts were not furnished to the FPSC. 
III. Key Initiatives
A number of initiatives to cater for increased workload of the Commission were taken in the recent past. 
These initiatives have played an instrumental role in updating and expediting working of the Commission. 
An overview of the initiatives undertaken is as follows:
a) Online Registration System: The Commission has moved to a complete online system of registration and submission of applications for General Recruitment (GR) and CSS Competitive Examination (CE) since 2013 and 2014 respectively. 
This has significantly accelerated completion of recruitment process and has facilitated the aspiring candidates.
b) Facilitation Centre: 
A Facilitation Centre has been established at FPSC Headquarters which serves as a single contact point for aspirants seeking information/assistance over phone. email or through personal visit. 
Over 42,000 phone calls and emails were received from candidates and appropriately responded during the year 2016.
c) E-communication: 
In order to address issues related to postal delays, an e-communication system has been established whereby candidates are contacted through e-mails & SMS informing them about schedule of conduct of tests and interviews. 
All admission certificates for tests/examinations are placed online. 
Mark sheets of competitive examinations are also placed online for convenience of the candidates.
d) Improved psychological Assessment: 
After strenuous efforts and deliberations with the corporate sector, psychological testing process for competitive examinations has been improved with an objective to better assess personality traits, depth of knowledge, confidence level and communication skills of the candidates. 
In the first quarter of 2016, psychological assessment of the remaining 184 candidates of the written qualified candidates of CE 201 5 was concluded. 
Psychological assessment for written qualified candidates of CE 2016 commenced from 02-11-201 6and was completed for 138 of the total 202 candidates by end of the year.
e) Process Rationalization for Efficiency Enhancement: 
In an effort to institute checks that could detect bottlenecks, redundancies and duplications hampering smooth functioning, a comprehensive streamlining exercise concerning FPSC work flows and processes was carried out while using modern tools. 
Entire workload of the Commission relating to General Recruitment and CSS was mapped for optimal processing, superintendence and monitoring through in-house developed software PREE (Process Rationalization for Efficiency Enhancement). 
This has resulted in expeditious completion of recruitment cases by ensuring time-bound completion of activities. 
f) Up gradation of Equipment and Technology: 
During the period, a sizeable addition was made in the equipment, gadgets, modernization of tools and technologies at FPSC to meet in-house user requirements, in addition to improved web portal for better navigation by the aspirants and general public.
IV. Observations/Findings
Public administration reflecting societal trends, is grappling with the challenges of more complex issues, rapid change and disruption to accepted practices. 
FPSC senior management embraces the need to refresh and reform to meet the challenges. 
Following are some of the observations/findings which need immediate attention of the Government: 
a) Female Participation in Civil Service: 
In CSS Competitive Examination 2015, out of total 238 finally allocated candidates to various services groups, 106 were females. 
The statistics reflect that females are fully capable to compete with male candidates on open merit seats besides the quota reserved for them. 
The government's affirmative actions to mainstream female participation in civil service have proved effective.
b) CSS Vacancies Remained Un-filled:
 A large number of vacancies also remained un-tilled due to the reason that candidates from respective quotas could not pass the CSS CE. 
Under CSS CE 2015, 95 vacancies out of 33 3remained un-filled. 
Most of the un-filled vacancies pertained to minorities. 
Moreover, significant number of vacancies from women quota of smaller provinces also remained un-filled. 
c) Non-availability of Qualified Professionals against Technical Posts:
During 2016, nomination of candidates against 396 posts in BS 16-20 could not he made due to non-availability of qualified professionals in various specialized fields from respective quotas. 
The apparent reason could be non-availability of qualified youth in the respective disciplines or may be the posts were not attractive for them. 
At times, responses were poor against advertised posts where the pay scales were inadequate considering qualification experience and other requirements for the post. 
d) Declining Standard of Education: Examiners and the Viva Voce Board of the Commission shared concerns on declining standard of education at all levels. 
Examiners, Assessment Reports for CSS CF 2015 and 2016 observed that low level of general knowledge, poor written expression. 
grammatical mistakes and lack of analytical approach were some of the main reasons for dismal performance of candidates in competitive exams.
The assessors also underscored that increasing reliance on guide books/guess papers/coaching centers do not prepare candidates to meet the required standards of CSS CE. 
e) Litigation- Cause of Delay in finalization of Recruitment Cases: 
Litigation by the candidates against rejection of their candidature due to irrelevant qualifications/experience has been one of the main barriers in speedy disposal of recruitment cases, especially for general recruitment. 
In 2016, 215 fresh cases were filed by the rejected candidates in various courts, in addition to 484 cases of previous years. 
162 cases were decided during the year by the learned courts. In all, 537 cases were subjudice in different courts of law at the end of the year 2016. 
V. Recommendations
a) Improving Standard of Education and Higher Learning: 
The Examiners and the Viva Voce Board of the Commission were of the considered view that higher education system in the country requires urgent attention and focus of the policy makers for a comprehensive review to determine deficiencies as well as redundancies. 
Overall revision of syllabi at all levels of education, particularly at the Secondary School level and improving the competencies of students in general and proficiency in languages (i.e. English or Urdu as a medium of communication) in specific is strongly recommended.
b) CSS Competitive Examination, Screening Test: 
Based on the statistics and Examiners. Assessment Reports, the Commission reiterates the need of introducing a filter/Screening Test prior to written CSS Competitive Examination. 
This step is likely to improve the quality of intake for the competitive examination, ensure objectivity in paper assessment, fast track entire process, reduce CE processing time and lead to substantial financial saving. 
India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka amongst SAARC countries are already holding screening test before the main examination. 
The proposal of the Commission awaits approval of the Government. 
c) Incentivizing the Civil Service: 
The Commission is of the view that Pakistan needs a civil service staffed by high caliber individuals who have the knowledge, the persuasiveness, resilience and the conviction to do their best for the country. 
For Pakistan to continue to advance and prosper, it is vital that the civil service remains as an appealing career option for the future generations. It is however presumed that due to inadequate compensation package and slow vertical career growth, young talent is not inclined towards civil service and prefers to follow a career in the private sector. 
Therefore the government may consider incentivizing the civil service for attracting the youth. 
d) Alignment of Recruitment Rules to incorporate new Qualifications/ Disciplines: 
The Commission has observed several deficiencies in the way qualifications for various posts are spelled out by sponsoring Ministries/Departments. 
Mismatch between job description and the job requirements often obstruct selection of persons from diverse fields or newly introduced disciplines. 
Recruitment Rules of departments framed years ago often do not have latest disciplines introduced in educational institutions. 
There is a need to realign the recruitment rules of civil posts by including latest disciplines/qualifications by the concerned Ministry/Division/Department. 
e) Strengthening Human and Financial Resources of the Commission: 
The work load of the Federal Public Service Commission has increased exponentially over time but there has not been proportional increase in human and financial resources. 
The Commission considers that in order to maintain high standard of efficiency for prompt processing and finalization of recruitment cases, human resource and budgetary provisions for FPSC need to be increased appropriately. 
The Commission expresses its gratitude to the Honorable President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Government for the continued support to this institution. 
(Naveed Akram Cheema)
Honourable Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,
President
Islamic Republic of Pakistan

Exhibition
"NBP Murree Kitab Mela"
(Letter dated 28th June 2018, from Prof. Dr. Inam-ul-Haq Javaid Managing Director, National Book Foundation, Islamabad to Brig.(R) Mujahid Alam, Principal, Lawrence College, Ghora Gali, Murree)
(Exhibition: Letter forwarding the Preface for the Brochure)
Exhibition


















(Art Exhibition)





(Interpretative Exhibition)




(Commercial Exhibition)
	




(Digital Exhibition)



(D.O. Letter dated 28th June 2018, from Prof. Dr. Inam-ul-Haq Javaid Managing Director, National Book Foundation, Islamabad to Brig.(R) Mujahid Alam, Principal, Lawrence College, Ghora Gali, Murree)
National Book Foundation
National History & Literary Heritage Division
Ministry of Information Broadcasting &  National Heritage
Government of Pakistan
Prof. Dr. Inam-ul-Haq Javeid
Managing Director
No. HSE-54 Islamabad,28th June, 2018
Subject: 3 day "NBF Murree Kitab Mela" From 13th to 15th July, 2018 (Friday to Sunday) at Lawrence College, Ghora Gali, Murree
My Dear Mujahid Alam,
As per our telephonic conversation, NBF has planned a  3day "Kitab Mela" in Lawrence College, Ghora Gali, Murree, from 13th to 15th July, 2018. 
The "Kitab Mela" will be inaugurated by Syed Ali Zafar, Minister for Information, Broadcasting, National History & Literary Heritage, at  3 p.m. on Friday 13th July, 2018. 
Most probably  3 or 4 Ambassadors of friendly countries will also grace the occasion.
2. It will be a mega event which includes participation of more than 30 Book Stalls of publishers and booksellers, Book Reading Sessions by eminent scholars/writers, Book Launching Ceremonies, Lucky Book Draw, Quiz Competition and story writing session of children and students, Mushaira, etc.
 which will be attended by the NBF delegates, writers, general public, students, authors, dignitaries of Murree, Muzaffarabad and surrounding areas including Rawalpindi-Islamabad. 
3. The event will focus on promotion of book reading culture which will help in promoting peace, harmony and knowledge in the society. 
4. NBF will arrange at its own expenses all programs in consultation with Lawrence College, Ghora Gali, and collaboration of Lawrence College will be acknowledged on Banners, Steamer, Cards and publicity material, etc. 
However, it is requested that tables for Book Stalls of publishers/booksellers may kindly be provided by Lawrence College.
5. You are requested to nominate a focal person from your side whereas from NBF following focal persons will remain in touch:
(i) Mrs. Afshan Sajid, Director (Admin) 
Phone:----------- Cell:-----------
(ii) Mr. Muhammad Rafique Naz, Assistant Director (Admin) 
Phone:--------------- Cell: -----------------
6. National Book Foundation will be highly indebted for your cooperation and collaboration for the noble cause of promotion of book culture in the country.
With regards, 
Yours sincerely, 
(Prof. Dr. Inam-ul-Haq Javeid)
Managing Director
Phone: ---------------
Brig (R) Mujahid Alam
Principal 
Lawrence College Ghora Gali Murree 
Exhibition: Letter forwarding the Preface for the Brochure)
Government of Pakistan
Designation------								     
------------Division
Tel.-----------------------
No----------------------								   
Islamabad, date---------------
Dear Mr.--------------
Please refer to your letter of -----date-----, addressed to the ----------------.
2. I forward herewith ------designation of the high official's------  preface for the brochure being printed in connection with the exhibition of the ---------------
3. Our best wishes for a successful event.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-------name--------)
----designation-----
Mr.-------------------
----designation-----
----name of the institution-----
---------name of the city--------

Federal Tax Ombudsman
(Proposal for One Building Operation of Ombudesmen for Redress of Citizens Grievances)											  
(Letter (April 2015) from Mr. Abdur Rauf Chaudhry, Federal Tax Ombudsman to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Wafaqi Mohtasib,May 2015)
(Letter from Federal Tax Ombudsman to the President, Islamic Republic of Pakistan , April 2017)
Federal Tax Ombudsman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(Representations)












Proposal for One Building Operation of Ombudesmen for Redress of Citizens Grievances
(D.O. Letter from Mr. Abdur Rauf Chaudhry,  Federal Tax Ombudsman to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Wafaqi Mohtasib)
Abdur Rauf Chaudhry, 
Federal Tax Ombudsman of Pakistan
No. 1/FTO/2013 Islamabad, Dated 26, May 2015
Subject: Annual Report-2014
Dear Salman Faruqui Sahib,
Assalam-o-Alaikum
I thank you for sending me a copy of Annual Report - 2014
2. I congratulate you on clearing the huge back log by disposing of an unprecedented number of 7731 1complaints during 201 4against an average disposal of 1547 8complaints per annum, processing and finalizing all new complaints within 60 days or less and deciding Review Petitions within 45 days or less is also commendable. 
These enviable achievements under your able leadership would encourage all Federal and Provincial members of the Forum of Pakistan Ombudsman (FPO) to follow suit and achieve our shared goal of good governance through prompt and inexpensive dispensation of justice to the citizens found genuinely aggrieved of maladministration by public functionaries.
3 I also greatly appreciate your initiative to expand the network of regional offices to take justice as it were to the doorsteps of aggrieved citizens. As this goal is also shared by all Ombudsmen under the umbrella of FPO. 
I propose that instead of establishing our regional offices in separate buildings in the same cities, let us initiate one building operation of Ombudsmen by housing our regional offices in the same building as also, recommended by the participants of workshop held by the FPO at Islamabad in September 2013 for sharing our experiences on Challenges of Ombudsmanship. 
In this Workshop, the participants representing all Ombudsman Offices being members of the FPO had unanimously adopted proposals (enclosed) including the following:
21(v) explore possibility of locating all Ombudsman offices in the building at Regional Offices to undertake One Building Operation of Ombudsman for redress of citizen's grievances.
4. If you kindly agree, we may focus implementation of this proposal in the next meeting of the FPO which may be held shortly to work out modalities to implement this proposal which would go a long way to offer service delivery to the aggrieved citizens by all Ombudsmen in one building at regional level. 
Let us, thus, set another good example of cooperative service delivery through one building operation which would be beneficial for the aggrieved citizens and economical for all of us sharing the costs of building and related services.
With best regards
Yours sincerely,
(Abdur Rauf Chaudhry)
Encl. (as above)
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui (NI)
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
Federal Ombudsman Secretariat, Islamabad
(D.O. Letter from Mr. Abdul rauf Chaudhry Federal Tax Ombudsman to Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,  President, Islamic Republic of Pakistan) 
Islamabad, April, 2017
Dear Mr. President,
It is a matter of great honour for me to present my fourth Annual Report under section 2 8(2) of Federal Tax Ombudsman Ordinance 2000, about the performance of the Federal Tax Ombudsman Office during the year 2016. 
Though the year remained characterized by unprecedented political activity, yet the Federal Tax Ombudsman (FTO) continued to provide the Taxpayers access to an independent, impartial and inexpensive dispute resolution mechanism 
which in addition to resolving the disputes, protects the taxpayers' interests. 
The Tax Ombudsman impartially investigates maladministration which, includes an act of omission or commission which is unjust or biased, oppressive and prejudiced. 
The Institution provides a framework for enforcing accountability and acts as a deterrent against mis-governance and malfeasance in FBR offices. 
2. In our peculiar circumstances, provision of justice has been a complex phenomenon for numerous reasons, ranging from lack of required skill to the imperfection of legal statutes. 
Hence, a lot needs to be done for providing prompt and inexpensive justice to the taxpayers. With the grace of Allah Almighty, the FTO office has earned exceptional reputation and all the stake holders including the business community and the tax collecting agencies repose confidence in this Institution. 
This Institution with a distinct culture and moral beliefs based upon independence and neutrality, helps in bolstering the confidence of the taxpayers. The achievements of the FTO office and feedback received from those who have benefitted from its services, provide an astute reflection of its performance. 
3. By virtue of Federal Ombudsmen Institutional Reforms Act 2013, the FTO is now better equipped to act in aid of the taxpayers. 
Besides its well acknowledged performance in addressing individual complaints, against tax collecting agencies, its contributions for systemic improvements are also getting recognition from the stakeholders. 
4. The FTO Office has provided relief to over 1,80 0taxpayers during the year 2016. 
For further improving the complaint redress system and making relief services more accessible to the taxpayers, new regional offices were opened in the business hubs and frequent visits were arranged to the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Tax Bars and offices of Trade Associations. 
In order to improve our interaction with the business community, we have included the Presidents of major Chambers of Commerce and Industry in the FTO's Advisory Committee. 
Their recommendations are regularly compiled and forwarded to the Federal Government for consideration at the time of finalizing the annual budget.
5. During the current year (2017), on completion of my four year term, I will be relinquishing the office with the satisfaction that throughout my tenure, I enjoyed unflinching support and highly valued guidance from your esteemed office. 
I express my sincere thanks for continued encouragement we received from the President's Secretariat for upholding our recommendations whenever challenged under Section 32 of FTO Ordinance 2000 and guidance provided while rectifying our recommendations. 
This office would always need similar support and guidance for improving service delivery and providing relief to the business community at their doorstep. 
Such measures are not only essential for building soft image of the government but also for building bridges for moving forward to achieve mutual goals of progress and prosperity. 
With profound regards, 
Yours sencierly,
(Abdur Rauf Chaudhry)
Honourable Mr.Mamnoon Hussain, President,
Islamic Republic of Pakistan Islamabad

Government Servants Conduct Rules, 1964
Declaration of Income and Assets
(Letter form Mr. ---------------Cabinet Secretary to all the Chief Secretaries of the Provinces and Copies to all the Federal Secretaries)
(Bar Against Naming of Institutions, Projects, Roads, Streets etc. in the County after the Names of Government Servants)
(Letter from Hafiz Khalid Mahmood, Joint Secretary, Establishment Division to all Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge)
(Letter from Mr. Hukam Dad Kiani, Joint Secretary, Establishment Division to all the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge)
(Fraternization Between Government Servants and the Foreign Missions in Pakistan)
1. Government Servants Conduct Rules 1964

































2. Declaration of Income and Assets
	









(Letter form Mr. ---------------Cabinet Secretary to all the Chief Secretaries of the Provinces and Copies to all the Federal Secretaries)
Cabinet Secretariat
Cabinet Division
Cabinet Secretary
Tel.-----------------
No.107/21-78-Min Islamabad, May 13, 1978
Subject: Bar Against Naming of Institutions, Projects, Roads, Streets etc. in the Country after the Names of Government Servants
My dear,
The instructions issued by the Federal Government from time to time for naming institutions, projects, roads, etc. have become out of date. 
The matter has been reconsidered by the Government of Pakistan and it has been decided to lay down the following guidelines on the subject in supersession of all previous orders:
(i) No institution, road, street, etc., should be named after a government servant or a public representative while he is still alive.
(ii) No institution, official or semi-official should be allowed to be named after a non-Pakistani without the permission of the Federal Government.
(iii) British names of towns, institutions, settlements etc. should be gradually replaced by Pakistani or Islamic names. 
(iv) Institutions and projects like bridges, buildings, roads, streets, etc. may be named after the following:
(a) The founder of the nation and persons who were in the forefront of the freedom movement, and took a prominent part in the creation of Pakistan. 
(b) National personalities (no longer alive) with unblemished record of service to the nation. 
(c) Heroes who have laid down their lives for the defence of the country in war. 
(d) Art and cultural institutions may be named after dead artists of national fame. The same principle can be followed in respect of educational institutions, libraries, scientific and technical institutions etc. 
(e) Principal donors of any building or institution built out of or for charity. 
(f) Living or dead heads of state/government of foreign countries friendly towards Pakistan. 
(v) Defence installations, military lines and institutions in cantonments and army stations may be named after war "shaheeds". 
(vi) No sports tournaments would be named after Governors, Ministers, government officials or public representatives or their wives. 
2. Permission of the competent authority in the Federal Government or the Provincial Government concerned (President/ *Governor as the case may be) shall be obtained in advance for the naming of institutions etc., on the basis of the above guidelines. 
In the case of defence installations etc., mentioned at (v) above, prior approval of the Chief of Staff Army/Navy/Air Force should be obtained. 
3. These guidelines may please be brought to the notice of all concerned for strict compliance. 
Yours sincerly,

All the Chief Secretaries of the Provincial Governments (by name)
Copy to: All the Federal Secretaries, Additional Secretaries Incharge.
Prime Minister or Chief Minister
(Letter from Hafiz Khalid Mahmood, Joint Secretary, Establishment Division to all  Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge)
Hafiz Khalid Mahmood, Cabinet Secretariat
Joint Secretary	Establishment Division
Subject: Amendments in Government Servants Conduct Rules-196 4and Submission of Declaration of Income and Assets held and Acquired by Government Servants and Corporation Empolyees
Dear Sir, 
The Competent Authority has been pleased to make amendments in the Government Servants Conduct Rules-1964 vide SRO No. 984(1)12004, dated 15-12- 2004(copy enclosed).
Rules (11) and (1 1A) pertaining to buying/ selling of moveable/ immoveable property and construction, of building etc. have been omitted. 
By virtue of substitution of sub-rule (2) of Rule-12 every Government Servant shall submit to the Government, through the usual channel, an annual declaration of income, assets and expenses for each financial year, (from 1st July to 30th June), showing any increase or decrease of property as shown in the declaration under sub-rule (1) or the last annual return, as the case may be. 
According to the new sub-rule (3) of Rule 12, Declaration of Assets Proforma shall be opened in the concerned section each year and entered into the relevant database. In order to meet the requirements of the amended provisions of Rule-12 of the Government Servants Conduct Rule-1964, a revised Declaration of Assets Proforma has been devised (copy enclosed). 
2. Following guidelines may be noted for strict compliance: 
(i) Declaration of Income, Assets & Expenses are to be submitted on prescribed proforma by all Government Servants of all Basic Pay Scales including all persons re-employed/employed on contract.
(ii) First Declaration of Assets on the revised proforma containing full details of assets and liabilities shall be submitted by all concerned for the Financial Year  ending on 30th June, 200 5by 31st July, 2005. 
The Government servants appointed after 30th June, 200 5shall submit Declaration of Assets as on the date of their first appointment. 
Thereafter, every Government Servant is required to submit declaration of his income and assets on close of every Financial Year i.e. 30th June by 31st July each year. 
(iii) The declaration of assets belonging to officers of APUG and OMG only will be forwarded to the Establishment Division. 
(iv) A certificate to the effect that such declaration has been obtained from all officers/officials should be forwarded to the Establishment Division by all the Ministries/Divisions by 1st of September each year. 
The controlling Ministries/Divisions will submit a consolidated certificate in respect of Departments etc. controlled by them. 
(v) It will be the responsibility of Ministries/ Divisions/ Departments/ Corporations/Autonomous bodies to obtain the declaration of assets in respect of persons serving under them, and take disciplinary actions against the defaulting officers/officials who do not submit such declarations by the prescribed date or within fifteen days thereof. 
(vi) Ministries/ Divisions/ Departments Corporations/Autonomous bodies etc. shall also maintain database regarding annual declaration of income, assets and expenses in respect of the officers/officials administratively controlled by them. 
Yours sincerely,
(Hafiz Khalid Mahmood)
All Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge 
Copy forwarded to the Chief Secretaries of Provincial Governments for similar action. It is requested that the Declaration of Assets with regard to Federal Employees may please be forwarded to the respective administrative Ministries/Divisions by 31st July of each year in terms of the above instructions. 
(Hafiz Khalid Mahmood)
(Letter from Mr. Hukam Dad Kiani, Joint Secretary, Establishment Division to all the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge)
Mr. Hukam Dad Kiani Cabinet Secretariat
Joint Secretary Establishment Division
Tel.------------------------
D.O.Letter No. 6/17/72-DA/D-4 Islamabad, 11th April, 1990
Subject: Fraternization Between Government Servants and the Foreign
Missions in Paksitan
My dear Secretary,
Instructions have been issued, from time to time explaining the parameters within which a Government servant could cultivate contacts with the personal of the Foreign Missions in the country. 
It has, however, come to the notice of the Government that despite clear orders, there exists a tendency amongst Government officials to approach the foreign missions, directly or indirectly, for personal favours as well as consular facilities. 
Such acts, obviously, are clear violation of Rule 30 of the Government Servants (Conduct) Rules, 196 4and instructions issued thereunder. 
2. The Government has taken a serious view of the above tendency amongst Government servants and it has, therefore, become imperative to circulate the Government instructions on the subject once again for strict compliance by the Government servants.
1. Government servants should exercise great caution and restrain in the matter of social contacts with the members of foreign missions in Pakistan and inter-alia abstain from extending invitations to circulate them for private lunches/dinners at their residence etc. 
2. Officials of the level of Deputy Secretary and below should not receive the officials of the foreign missions, except with the express permission of the Secretary.
3. Government servants are also prohibited from contacting, or making direct approaches, to the foreign missions in Pakistan, in connection with their private business. All such approaches should be made through proper channel (i.e., the Ministry of Foreign Affairs).
4. Invitations extended by the Foreign Missions, on the occasions of their National, Days, to the officers below the status of Joint Secretaries, may be accepted only, after obtaining permission from the Secretary. 
5. The participation of officers, below the status of joint Secretary, in the private functions, arranged by the foreign diplomats, should generally be discouraged. 
Joint Secretaries and officers of equivalent status will, however, do so with the prior approval of the Secretary. 
6. Repeated and frequent attendance by the officers, at private functions held by the same foreign diplomat, must be avoided.
7. As a general rule, only those officers who come into official contact with the foreign diplomat concerned, should accept his invitation. 
3. You are requested to kindly ensure compliance of the above instructions, at all levels, and that no one approaches, directly or indirectly, any foreign missions in Pakistan or any foreign aid-giving agency, for favours. 
It may also be brought home to them that any violation of the rules, as well as the instructions issued on the subject from time to time, will be dealt with severely under the conduct and discipline rules. 
With regareds,
Yours sincerely,
(Hukam Dad Kiani)
All the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries

Gratitude (Gratefulness, Thankfulness, Thanks)
(a) Gratitude-Concept of thankfulness (Shukr) and Saying, 'Thanks' to   Others in Islam
(b) Importance of Gratitude
(c) Leter of Thanks
(Letter from a foreign dignitary to the Prime Minister of Pakistan on receiving the gift of mangoes)
(Letter from the Prime Minister of Pakistan to a foreign high official on receiving a gift of carpet)
(Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister to Mr.------------head of the Organization on receiving donations for Rs.--------------)(Aid for-----------Fund)
Wedding Ceremonies (Letter of Thanks from a High Official to the other High Official)
( Letter of Thanks form the Press Secretary to the Prime Minister to the------------ِ Ambassador, Embassy of -----name of country----,Islamabad)
(Letter of Thanks (March 6, 1998) on cooperation in official matters from Mr. Atta Muhammad Raja Deputy Secretary to Principal Secretary/Community Welfare Attache (Designate) to Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Deputy Secretary, Prime Minister's Secretariat (Public), Islamabad)	
Letter of thanks on giving donations to the Welfare Fund for the Employees of 	
------name of organization------
(a) Gratitude-Concept of thankfulness (Shukr) and Saying, Thanks to Others in Islam






(b) Importance of Gratitude












(c) Letter of Thanks




































(Letter of thanks from a foreign dignitary to the Prime Minister of Pakistan on receiving the gift of mangoes)
Place, date-----------------
Dear---------------,
Thank you so much for the delightful and delicious gift of mangoes which you sent me last month. They gave the greatest gastronomic pleasure to the ----(name of the family)----family breakfast table for many days!
I was sorry to miss you during your brief visit to ----name of place-----. Mr.-------- told me how much he had enjoyed his talk with you. 
I hope I may be able to make a visit to Pakistan later in the year.
Thank you again for your kind and thoughtful gift which I greatly appreciated.
Yours sincerely
(-----name-------)
H.E------------------
Prime Minister,
Islamic Republic of Pakistan Islamabad
(Letter from the Prime Minister of Pakistan to the President, ---name of counrty----  on receiving a gift of carpet)
The Prime Minister
Islamabad, date---------------
Dear President
I was delighted to receive the magnificent carpet you so kindly sent. When ever I see its warm and vibrant colour, I am reminded of the warmth of the welcome we received in -----name of foreign capital------.
2. Your gifts's fine workmanship is a lasting tribute to the traditions and culture of ----name of country----. Please accept my profound gratitude for your thoughtful gesture.
Sincerely,
(-----name-----)
Prime Minister
His Excellency Mr. ---------------------,

-----name of country--------
----name of the capital-----
(Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister to Mr.---------head of the Organization on receiving donations of Rs.--------------)
The Prime Minister
Islamabad, date---------------
Dear Mr.-----------------,
It is most kind of the Employees of the -----name of organization---- to devote their one day's salary to my 'Aid for----Fund'.
2. I send to the Employees and to all who contributed, my grateful thanks for the donation of Rs.------------- which you have forwarded on their behalf.
3. You will, I know, be interested to hear that the Fund has now reached nearly Rs.------ and donations continue to come in from all parts of the country.
4. I once again thank all the Employees and the Contributors.
Yours sincerely,
(----name-----)
Mr.------------------------------------
------------designation--------------
----name of the organization-----
---------------address----------------
Wedding Ceremony
(Letter of Thanks from a High Official to the other High Official)
No.----------------------                                                             
Islamabad,  date--------------
My dear----------------,
Assalam-o-Alaikum
I wish to convey to you my sincere thanks for gracing the wedding ceremony of my daughter, -------------. 
It gives us all great pleasure, particularly the newly weds to have you with us on this happy occasion. 
We shall remember the lovely evening, made the more joyous by your kind presence.
My wife joins me in thanking you and wishing you the very best in life.
With warm regards and best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
(------name------)
Mr.------------------
----designation----
-----name of the office-----
Islamabad
(Letter of Thanks from the Press Secretary to the Prime Minister to H.E-------Ambassador, Embassy of ----------, Islamabad)
No.------------------											
Place, date------------
Dear Ambassador--------------,
Thank you for your thoughtfulness in sending the photographs of me and my wife taken during the recent wonderful evening we spent at your Embassy.
I look forward to seeing you again soon at the dinner for --------------------
Sincerely,
(------name-------)
Press Secretary to the Prime Minister
H.E.  Mr.--------------------,
Ambassador
Embassy of --------------
Islamabad
(Letter of thanks for cooperationin the performance of official duties)
Prime Minister's Secretariat(Public)
Islamabad
March 6, 1998
Atta Muhammad Raja
Deputy Secretary to Principal Secretary
Community Walfare Attache (Designate)
My dear,
On completion of my tenure as Deputy Secretary to the Principal Secretary in the Prime Minister's Secretariat, I wish to express my profound thanks for the understanding and willing cooperation extended by you during my stay in the Prime Minister's Secretariat. 
2. I am fully conscious that it was with your valuable cooperation and assistance which you extended wholeheartedly that I have been able to accomplish the official tasks assigned to me in the challenging position. 
3. While saying Allah Hafiz to you, I wish you a rewarding and prosperous future. 
With profound regards, 
Yours sincerely, 
(Atta Muhammad Raja)
Mr. Jamshaid Alam
Deputy Secretary
Prime Minister's Secretariat(Public)
Islamabad
Letter of thanks on giving donations to the Welfare Fund for the Employees of ------name of organization------
Government of Pakistan
(-------------Division)
---name of the organization-----
Name----------------
----designation-----
Tel.------------------
D.O.No.----------Islamabad, date--------------------
Subject: Welfare Fund for Employees of ---name of department/organization--- 
My dear,
On behalf of -----Head of Department/Organization----- I acknowledge receipt of an amount of Rs.--------, contributed by you in the -----------Welfare Fund. 
We highly appreciate your generosity and valuable contribution. We are equally indebted for your commitment to contribute Rs.---------- per month if future as well. 
----name of department/institution---- considers you an important member of its teem and we are extremely thankful for your valuable advice on various training related issues etc.
2. Thank you once again and we pray for your long healthy life, peace and prosperity.
Yours sincerely,
(--------name---------)
---designation/chairman EWF
Mr.---------------------
-------address--------

Invitation for an official Visit and Hospitality during official Visit
(State Visits, Official Visits to Foreign Countries)
Invitation for an official visit (Letter from Minister for Foreign Affairs, Pakistan to Minister for Foreign Affairs ---name of Foreign Country---)
(Letter of thanks on Acceptance of Invitation for Official Visit)
Regrets-Invitation for a Special Mission to attend the Inauguration Ceremony of the President-Elect
(Letter from Minister for Foreign Affairs, Pakistan to Minister for Foreign Affairs, ---name of the country---)
Hospitality During Official Visit
(Letter of thanks from the President ---name of country--- to the President ---name of country---)
(Letter of thanks to the Prime Minister, ---name of country--- from the Prime Minister, Islamic Republic of Pakistan)
Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister, ---name of country--- to the Prime Minister, ---name of country---)
State Visits/Official Visit to Foreign Countries
(State Visit)


(Official Visit)

(Official Working Visit)



(Importance of State Visits/Official Visits to Foreign Countries)


















(Multilateral Meetings)

(Components of a State Visit) 














(Visit to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)







(Visit to the United States of America-USA)
 (State Visit)







(Official Visit)





(Official Working Visit)







(Working Visit)





(Private Visit)




(Difference between State/Official Visit and Official Working Visit)






Invitation for an official visit
(D.O. Letter from Minister for Foreign Affairs Pakistan to Minister for Foreign Affairs ---name of Foreign Country---)
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Foreign Minister
No.-------------Islamabad, date--------------
Dear Mr.----------------
I have a great pleasure to extend my cordial invitation to Your Excellency to pay an official visit to Pakistan from ------ to -------.
I am fully confident that Your Excellency's visit will open a new chapter and render further opportunities for our two countries to strengthen our historical relations   and to enhance mutual cooperation for the common interests of our two peoples.
I am looking forward to warmly welcoming Your excellency in ----name of capital-----
Yours sincerely,
(-----name------)
Minister for Foreign Affaires
His Excellency Mr. ------------,
Minister for Foreign Affairs,
----name of country-----
----name of capital-------
(Letter of thanks on Acceptance of Invitation for official visit)
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of Foreign Affaires
Foreign Minister
No.-------------Islamabad, date--------------
Dear Mr.----------------
In response to your letter of ----date-----, I have the great pleasure to sincerely thank you for your official acceptance of my invitation extended to you to pay an official visit to Pakistan.
I warmly welcome you on -----------in Islamabad as proposed.
I do believe that your visit would be an opportune occasion for us to exchange views on how to further enhance cooperation between our two countries in our mutual benefit.
2.I look forward to seeing you soon in ----name of host country----	
Yours sincerely,
(-----name------)
Minister for Foreign Affaires
His Excellency Mr. -----------------,
Minister for Foreign Affairs,
----name of country-----
----name of capital-------
Regrets-Invitation for a Special Mission to attend the Inauguration cermony of the President -Elect
(Letter from Minister for Foreign Affairs, Pakistan to the  Minister for Foreign Affairs, ----name of the country----)
Government of ---------------
Ministry of Foreign Affaires
Foreign Minister
No.--------------Islamabad, date--------------
Excellency, 
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated -------------- in which you have extended an invitation for a Special Mission representing the ---name of country----- to attend the ceremony of inauguration of His Excellency ---------------- President -Elect of --------------- to be held in ------------- on ----------.
My government deeply appreciate Your Excellency's invitation but regret that circumstances do not permit us to avail ourselves of your courtesy by dispatching a Special Mission at the present time.
I am to convey to Your Excellency and through you to His Excellency the President-Elect our good wishes on this auspicious occasion of his inauguration.
Yours sincerely,
(-----name------)
Minister for Foreign Affairs
His Excellency Mr. -----------------,
Minister for Foreign Affairs,
----name of country-----
----name of capital-------
Hospitality during official visit
(Letter of thanks from the President ---name of country----to the President ---name of country----
The President
---name of country----
No.----------------						     ---name of capital---, date-------------------
Dear------------------,
Thank you very much for your exceptional hospitality during our visit to --------------. 
I appreciate the way that you and your Government ensured that our short stay in this beautiful  country ran smoothly.
2. We believe that the ----name of the organization---- is crucial to our common interests and sustainable economic development of two countries of this region.
3. I look forward to further cooperation both bilaterally  and within ----name of the regional organization-----
With profound regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-----name------)
President
---name of country-----
His Excellency Mr.  -----------------,
President
----name of country-----
----name of capital-------
(Letter of thanks to the Prime Minister ---name of country----from the Prime Minister, Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
The Prime Minister
No.--------------Islamabad,  date-------------------
Dear Mr. Prime Minister,
I want to thank you most cordially for the kind reception which you and your Government gave me on my visit to the ----name of country----. I was most grateful for the opportunity to meet and exchange views on current international problems with members of your Cabinet and especially with you personally. 
It was a very interesting tour which you made possible for us.
My wife joins me in thanking you and Mrs.---------------- for the delightful dinner at the White House; it was a very enjoyable evening and it made our whole trip one which we shall remember with pleasure. 
We both send our best regards to you and  Mrs.-----------------
Most sincerely Yours,
(---------name ------------)
His Excellency Mr.----------------------,
Prime Minister
-------name of country------------
--------name of capital-----------
Hospitality during official visit
(Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister, ----name of country---- to the Prime minister, ----name of country-----)
The Prime Minister							           
--name of capital---, date-------------------
Dear Mr. Prime Minister,
I wish to express my sincere thanks to Your Excellency and the friendly people of the ----name of the country---- for the warm welcome and hospitality extended to me and my delegation during our recent visit to ---name of country----  and making our stay in -----(capital city)------ a memorable one.
The exchange of views I had with Your Excellency had surely contributed to better understanding, mutual trust and goodwill between our two countries and peoples. 
Hoping to reciprocate your generous hospitality accorded to us during our recent visit to your beautiful country, I would like to invite you and Madame to pay a visit to ---name of country---- at a mutually conveniently time. 
I am fully confident that Your Excellency's visit will further consolidate the bonds of friendship and understanding between our two nations.
With warm regards,
Yours sincerely,
His Excellency Mr. ----------------------,
Prime Minister
-------name of country------------
--------name of capital-----------

Letters from the Public (Grievances, Proposals, Support, Views etc)
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note
Public Grievances Redressal
Public Grievances (Reply of a letter addressed to the Prime Minister) 
Public Grievances: (Reply of the letter addressed to the Prime Minister)
Proposals on Economy (Letter of thanks on behalf of the Prime Minister)
(Request of Meeting with the Prime Minister)
Views on a Particular Matter:(Reply of  a letter from the President, --name of association--- to the Prime Minister)
Public Grievances (Reply of a letter received from Secretary, --name of association-- to the Prime Minister)
(Letter from the president, ---name of association---, to the Honourable Member, National Assembly of Pakistan)
Public Grievances (Reply of the letter addressed to the Secretary -------Dvision)
Message of Support(Reply of the Prime Minister)
(Letter of thanks by the Prime Minister on receiving a book)
(Reply on behalf of the Prime Minister alongwith a photograph of the Prime Minister)
(Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister on sending ideas and proposals for the conference speech)
(Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister on Receiving the Letter of Comfort)
Public Grievances Redressal






































Public Grievances (Reply of a letter addressed to the Prime Minister) 
Name---------------------				     Prime Minister Secretariat (Public)
-------Designation------
Tel------------------------
No---------------------Islamabad, date-----------------
Dear-----------------------
I am writing on behalf of the Prime Minister to thank you and your co-signatories for your letter dated--------------
2. The Prime  Minister  is  grateful  for  the  time  you  have  taken to get in touch with him.
3. Since the ---name---- Division is responsible to consider this case, the Prime Minister has asked me to forward your letter to the ---name--- Division so that they may examine various aspects of the case and reply your concerns directly.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
-----designation-----
Mr.------------------------
----------Address---------
Public Grievances (Reply of the letter addressed to the Prime Minister) 
Name----------------- Prime Ministers' Secretariat (Public)
-------Designation------
Tel------------------------
No------------------Islamabad, date-----------------
Dear Mr.-----------------------
Thank you for contacting the Prime Minister.
2. I hope you will appreciate, I that the Prime Minister receives a large number of letters each week and it is often necessary to ask the Division responsible for the matters raised to take necessary action in this regard and inform the aggrieved person accordingly.
3. I am sorry that you do not appear to have received a response from the ---------Division. 
I have passed your further correspondence to them to ensure that they are aware of your ongoing concerns.
4. If you like you can contact them on the following address:
5. Thank you once again, for writing a letter to the Prime Minister.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
-----designation-----
Mr. ----------------------
Address-----------------
Proposals on Economy (Letter of Thanks on behalf of the Prime Minister)
Prime Minister Secretariat (Public)
No-----------------Islamabad, date-----------------
Dear Mr -----------------------
I am writing on behalf of the Prime Minister to thank you for your thought- provoking letter dated---------
2. Your letter continuing useful proposals on various aspects of our economy has been sent to Minister for Finance for consideration and appropriate action.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
   -----designation-----
Mr.------------------------
---------address----------
(Request for Meeting with the Prime Minister)
The Prime Minister 
Islamabad, date-----------------
Dear -----------------------
I have now had an opportunity of reading your very interesting letter dated--------------
2. I would very much like to see you during the week from ----- to----- (month), so that we might have a talk together.
3. I shall be delighted, if you can manage to have lunch with me on ----------------, date------------- at ---place-----
4. I shall look forward to seeing you again.
With all good wishes,
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
Mr.------------------------
---------address----------
Views on a Particular Matter (Reply to a Letter from the President, ---name of association--- to the Prime Minister)
Government of Pakistan
Prime Minister's Secretariat (Public)
D.O. No--------------------Islamabad, date-----------------
Dear  Mr. -----------------------
The Prime Minister has asked me to thank you for your letter dated----------------
2. Mr.-----------------would like to reply personally, but as you will appreciate, he receives many thousands of letters each week and this is not possible.
3. The matter you have raised, is the responsibility of the Ministry of -----------------, therefore, he has asked me that your letter be forwarded to the Ministry  concerned so that they are also aware of your views.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
-----designation-----
Mr.-----------------------------
---name of association------
------------address-------------
Public Grievances (Reply of a letter received from Secretary, ---name of association---- to the Federal Minister)
Ministry of ---------------
Government of Pakistan
Name-------------------------
---------designation--------
Tel---------------------------
No---------------------Islamabad, date-----------------
Dear Mr. -----------------------
Please refer to your letter dated-------------addressed to Honourable Minister for ---------------, regarding---------------.
2. In this connection, a D.O. letter No------------- dated-------------has been received from Mr.----------------Director General, ---name of department----, Islamabad, a copy of which is enclosed for your kind information.
With warm regards,
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
 -----designation-----
Mr.-----------------------------,
Secretary,
---name of association------
------------address-------------
Letter from President, ---name of association---, to the Honourable Member, National Assembly of Pakistan)
The Honourable ---(MNA's name)---
Members, National Assembly of Pakistan
Islamabad
Dear  Member,
I would like to express my appreciation for the opportunity to meet with you. I know you are very busy, and I am grateful that you made time to talk with me about issues that are important to senior citizens.
2. You will recall that we touched on the following issues.
3. I look forward to continuing this relationship and to future meetings with both you and your dedicated staff.
With profound regards,
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)

-----name of association-----
Public Grievances: Reply of the Letter addressed to the Secretary --------Division
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of ---------------
------------------Division
Name-----------------
-----designation----
Tel--------------------
D.O. No--------------Islamabad, date-----------------
Dear  -----------------------
Thank you for your letter dated--------addressed to the Secretary--------Division and a copy of this letter has been sent by you to the Chairman, ------name of organization------.
2. I am taking up the matter immediately with the ---name of the organization---- and will let you know as soon as possible.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
-----designation-----
Mr.-----------------------------
------------address-------------
Message of Support Reply of the Prime Minister
The Prime Minister
Place, date-----------------
Dear Councillor ------------------
Thank you for your letter dated------------------.
2. I am indeed grateful for your message of support at this time of national crisis.
3. It is a source of considerable encouragement to me to know that the Government has so many staunch supporters.
4. Please convey my thanks and appreciation to all your members.
Yours sincerely
(------name-------)

(Letter of thanks by the Prime Minister on receiving a book)
The Prime Minister
Place, date-----------------
Dear -----------------------
Thank you so much for sending me a copy of the ---title of the book----, written by ---name of auther----, on an important subject of national importance.
I shall be interested to read it. 
It was good of you to send me this book.
With best wishes.
Yours sincerely, 
(------name-------)
-----designation-----
Mr.------------------------
---------address---------
(Reply on behalf of the Prime Minister alongwith a photograph of the Prime Minister)
No-------------------
Place, date-----------------
Dear ----------------
The Prime Minister has asked me to thank you for your letter dated------------.
2. Please find enclosed a photograph of the Prime Minister, alongwith his best wishes.
3. The Prime Minister has also instructed me to convey his congratulations on your excellent success for the examination. He hopes that you will continue your hard work in your studies.
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
   -----designation-----
Mr.------------------------
---------address---------
(Letter of thanks on sending ideas and proposals for the conference speech)
The Prime Minister
Place, date-----------------
Dear ----------------
Thank you very much for your letter containing ideas and proposals for my conference speech. I was good of you to take the trouble to write these important points.
2. I hope you enjoy the party conference. We still have so much to do for the country.
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
----designation-----
Mr.------------------------
---------address---------
(Letter of thanks from the Prime Minister on Receiving the Letter of Comfort)
The Prime Minister
Place, date-----------------
Dear Mr.----------------
Thank you so much for your letter dated-------------. 
I am very grateful to you for writing and for your good wishes. 
I do not think that the terrible events of ---------- will ever fade from our memories but I know that the victims and their families have deeply appreciated the many messages of comfort and support they have received. 
I too have derived great strength from the kindness of so many dear friends, as we remember those who have suffered.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
Prime Minister
Mr.-----------name-------------
--------------address------------

Letter of Acknowledgement at High Level
(D.O. Letter from Kh.Zaheer Ahmad, Special Assistant to the Prime Minister to Mr. Salman Faruqui, NI, Wafaqi Mohtasib)
Letter of Acknowledgement








Acknowledgement of the receipt of the letter at high level (D.O Letter from Kh.Zaheer Ahmad, Special Assistant to Prime Minister to Mr. Salman Faruqui, NI, Wafaqi Mohtasib)
Kh. Zaheer Ahmad Prime Minister's Office
Special Assistant Islamabad to Prime Minister							  
Tel.--------------- 
No.-------------February 13, 2015
Subject:  National Agenda for  Real Change
Dear sir, 
Receipt of your letter dated 12th February, 201 5and the research work of the Wafaqi Mohtasib Secretariat is acknowledged with gratitude.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Kh. Zaheer Ahmad)
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, NI	
Wafaqi Mohtasib Islamabad


Letter of Appreciation
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note (Government Instructions Regarding Letter of Appreciation)
(Letter from Mr. Rafat Mahdi, Additional Secretary, Ministery of Foreign Affairs to Mr. Tanveer H. Siddiqui, Assistant, Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
(Letter from Minister for Mineral Development/Focal Person/Coordinator for Mega Project)
(Letter of Appreciation from Mr. Ejaz Rahim, Cabinet Secretary to Mr. Muhammad Ashraf, Deputy Secretary (Admn) Cabinet Division)
(Letter of Appreciation from Mr. Iqbal Saeed, Secretary, Minister for Industries to Mr. Muhammad Ajmal Khan, Ministry of Industries)
(Letter dated 16 July 199 6from Mr. Abdul Ghafoor Mirza, Joint Secretary (Budget) Ministry of Finance, to Mr. Fakhar Abbas Naqvi, Deputy Secretary (Budget Wing) Finance Division)
(Letter from Mr. Aziz-ur-Rehman, Assistant Director (R&D), Higher Education Commission Islamabad to Dr. Muhammad Shahid Khalil, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineeing, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxsila)
(Letter from Mr. Tahir Khushnood, Director (HP) to Mr. Feroz Khan, Director Press Information Department, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad)
Appreciable Performance (Letter from the Director, FIA Peshawar Zone, to the Federal Minister for Ministry of National Health Services Regulations and Coordination)
Felicitation on Professional Performance (Letter from the Immigration Liason Officer Embassy of France, Islamabad to the Director General, FIA, Islamabad.
Letter of Appreciation from Government





Letter of Appreciation
(D.O.Letter from Mr. Rafat Mahdi, Additional Secretary, Ministery of Foreign Affairs to Mr. Tanveer H. Siddiqui, Assistant, Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
Rafat Mahdi Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Additional Secretary Government of Pakistan
No, SUM-1/97-GEN Islamabad, 1 4May, 1997
My dear Tanvir,
I am writing to thank you for your support and cooperation extended to me in making the administrative/logistics arrangements for the recently concluded Extraordinary Islamic Summit held in Islamabad on 23 March, 199 7to coincide with the Golden Jubilee of our independence. 
The meticulous arrangements made by us as a team have won the appreciation of the President and the Prime Minister as well as the visiting dignitaries. 
2. It was a collective effort for which contribution from each one of us was vital. Your dedication and devotion to the task assigned to you have impressed me enormously. 
I received strength from your commitment and interest in the work of the Summit. The hard work and sense of purpose with which you shouldered the responsibility have ensured our success. You deserve commendation for your contribution. 
3. Once again, please accept my gratitude and sincere thanks for your efforts. 
I am instructing that this letter be placed on your personal 
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
(Rafat Mahdi)
Mr. Tanveer H.Siddiqui
Assistant, (Cash-I)
M/o Foreign Affairs, Islamabad.

Letter of Appreciation (Letter from Minister for Mineral Development/Focal Person/Coordinator for Mega Projects, Peshawar to DG FIA)
Minister for Mineral Development/
Focal Person/Coordinator
 Name.-------Mega Projects
No.----------------Peshawar, date------------------
Dear--------------,
I hope this letter of mine would find your goodself in good health and high spirit.
2. I take this opportunity to pay thanks to you for posting of a Focal person------------- and to express my pleasure and satisfaction upon the professional work, sense of responsibility and devotion to duty of the said officer. 
His performance and timely action on the genuine complaints of the public under your auspices has been excellent towards the resolution of problems of the general public in the ------------ and -------------Departments to a greater extent.
3. We expect, the officer will keep continue such like support and efforts in future, enabling us to resolve/lessen the genuine problems of the general public.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(----name------)
Mr.----------------,
Director General, FIA Islamabad
Recognition of Services (Letter of Appreciation from Mr. Ejaz Rahim, Cabinet Secretary to Mr. Muhammad Ashraf, Deputy Secretary (Admn) Cabinet Division)
Ejaz Rahim Cabinet Secretary Government of Pakistan
Tel.-----------------Cabinet Division
No. 1/3/2002-A/c-III Islamabad, 11th August, 2004
My dear Ashraf Sahib,
I am happy to say that Cabinet Division's performance in the recently concluded session of the Public Accounts Committee, was extremely satisfactory. 
2. 1believe that the good results achieved were on account of sincere efforts and dedicated work put in by our officers associated with the preparatory work. 
3. It gives me great pleasure in issuing this appreciation letter in recognition of your services and I would like that the same may be placed in your PER dossier.
4. Congratulations once again for your contribution and hard work. 
Regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Ejaz Rahim)
Mr. Muhammad Ashraf
Deputy Secretary (Admn-I) Cabinet Division, Islamabad.














(Letter of Appreciation from Mr. Iqbal Saeed, Secretary, Ministry of Industries to Mr. Muhammad Ajmal Khan, Ministry of Industries)
Ministry of Industries
Government of Pakistan
No.---------------28th February, 1992
LETTER OF APPRECIATION
My dear--------------,
Mr. Muhammad Ajmal Khan was associated with the arrangements for the conduct of the MINISTERIAL CONSULTATION ON INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION AMONG ISLAMIC COUNTRIES held at Islamabad from 1 4to 1 7February 1982.
2. The above Consultation has successfully concluded mainly due to the hard work and devotion of those involved in various arrangements.
3. It is, therefore, decided to award this letter of appriciation to him in token of the gratitude of the Ministry of Industries.
Yours sincerely,
(Iqbal Saeed)
Secretary
Mr. Muhammad Ajmal Khan, 
Ministry of Industries Islamabad.



(D.O. Letter from Mr. Abdul Ghafoor Mirza, Joint Secretary (Budget), Ministry of Finance, to Mr. Fakhar Abbas Naqvi, Deputy Secretary (Budget Wing) Finance Division)
From: A. Ghafoor Mirza, Ministry of Finance
Joint Secretary (Budget), Government of Pakistan
Tele.----------------					       
Islamabad, 16th July 1994
My dear Fakhar,
It is my pleasure to convey Finance Secretary's appreciation for the hard work done by you for the preparation of the Budget 1994-95.
2. On my own behalf, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to you and your staff for the cooperation and help during the Budget preparation period. 
I am particularly grateful for the work done by your section at odd hours and on closed holidays.
3. I wish to place on record that my colleagues in the Budget Wing are very competent, talented, experienced and highly responsible Government Officials. 
I hope that they will not only maintain the quality of their work but also make an effort to improve upon it in years to come.
4. I wish you all success in your career.
Yours sincerely,
(A. Ghafoor Mirza)
Mr. Fakhar Abbas Naqvi,
Deputy Secretary (Budget),
Budget Wing, Finance Division Islamabad.























Wind Energy Expertise Research Project for Social and Economic Development of the Country
(D.O.Letter from Mr. Aziz-ur-Rehman, Assistant Director (R&D),Higher Education Commission Islamabad to Dr. Muhammad Shahid Khalil, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineeing, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxsila)
Higher Education Commission
H-9, Islamabad, Pakistan
Ph.--------------- Fax.-------------
Aziz-ur-Rehman
Assistant Director
Tel.-----------------
No. 20-1194/R&D/HEC/08/6063 July 17, 2013
Dr. Muhammad Shahid Khalil,
Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineeing, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila
Subject: Development of Human Resource and the Wind Energy Expertise
Dear  Mr.------------------,
This is with reference your to letter Dated 26-03-201 3on the subject noted above. It is to inform you that the Competent Authority of HEC and the nominated focal Person has deeply evaluated your Research Project and they have decided that the Research work has done by you, and may be beneficial for the  social and economic development of the country in future. 
2. HEC appreciates your contribution towards promoting the research culture in the universities through the research projects funded by HEC. 
3. It is further to inform you that the above project has financially settled and there is no financial liability on the part of HEC/University. 
With regards
Yours sincerely,
Aziz ur Rehman
Assistant Director (R&D)
Dr. Muhammad Shahid Khalil, 
Professor, 
Department of Mechanical Engineeing,
University of Engineering and Technology, Taxsila)












Letter from Mr. Tahir Khushnood, Director (HP) to Mr. Feroz Khan, Press Information Department, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad
Tahir Khushnood	Press Information Departemnt,
Director HP Government of Pakistan Islamabad
No.--------------November 21, 2005
Dear Feroz Khan
Please accept my profound gratitude for your whole hearted efforts, and contribution toward establishment and the operation of Media Centers at Convention Center Islamabad and Holiday Inn to facilitate International and National Media Persons on the eve of "International Donor's Conference" held at Convention Center on November 19, 2005. 
Your persistent hard work and dedication was a source of strength for PID through out the conference. 
You have done a great service in the interest of Press Information Department and I am confident that in the future, as well you will continue with the same devotion, hard work and sense of responsibility. 
Yours sincerely,
(Tahir Khushnood)
Director HP
Mr. Feroz Khan,
Information Officer,
Press Information Department, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad


(Appreciable Performance) D.O.Letter form the Director, FIA, Peshawar Zone to the Federal Minister for Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination)
Maqsood ul hussan, Federal Investigation Director, Agency,Peshawar Zone
No. FIA-KPK/Admn/M.72/14/9800-03	Dated 18, June 2014
To The Honourable Federal Minister
Ministry of National Health Services,
Regulations And Coordination, Islamabad.
Subject: Appreciable Performance by Deputy Director General DRAP (Peshawar)
Madam, 
I on behalf of Federal Investigation Agency Pakistan (Peshawar), feel profound honour on and satisfaction on the positive and professional performance of Mr. Syed Welayat Shah, Deputy Director General (E & M) Drug Regulatory Authority Pakistan (Peshawar) in extending his full support and coordination with FIA to curb the menace of spurious drugs in Khyber Pakhtun Khwa which, I think is a major threat to the health of the ailing humanity. 
In a recent campaign, we very successfully uprooted an international gang involved in the manufacture of fomous brands of multinational life saving drugs at three different premises in Peshawar and Charsadda. 
His technical input to FIA helped a lot in strengthening the prosecution due to which, the accused are  still in jail and their bail applications are rejected by Drug Court and Peshawar High Court. 
I hope, in future, better liaison between the two departments will provide good basis in result oriented services to the public of KP.
2. The credit also goes to the high Authorities of NHSRC & DRA Pakistan for their support and interest .   
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Maqsood ul  Hassan)
PSF
Copy for information to:
1. Secretary M/O National Health Service, Regulations & Coordination, Islamabad.
2. CEO Drug Regulatory Authority, Civil* Secretariat, Islambad
3. The Chief of Staff to DG FIA, Islamabad
Felicitation on Professional Performance
(Letter from the Immigration Liaison Officer, Embassy of France, Islamabad to the Director General, FIA, Islamabad)  
Embassy of France, Islamabad
No: 212/DCSP/PAK/ISB Islamabad,  9July, 2014
Amine TARTAG
The Immigration Liaison Officer,
Embassy of France
To The Director General,
Federal Investigation Agency, Islamabad
Subject: Letter of Felicitation on Good Performance by the Immigration Department at Islamabad and Lahore International Airports
Dear Director General,
The Embassy of France presents its compliments to yourself and your agency and in the framework of continuation in combined efforts against irregular immigration and human trafficking has the honor to felicitate the DG FIA and his Immigration team performing at the Benazir International and Allama Iqbal International airports for showing high standard of professionalism by offloading simultaneously 1 3and 1 2passengers at Islamabad and Lahore International airports respectively on July 7, 201 4who intended to travel on visa obtained with false declaration and falsified documents.
Such dedicated teams not only bring good name and pride to the Federal Investigation Agency but also to the whole Pakistani nation.
Congratulations and with our best regards.
Amine TARTAG
Round Seal

Letters from the President, the Prime Minister and the Ministers to Scientists, Scouts, Students, Supporters, Teachers and Welfare Organizations   	
(Appreciation)
(Letter form the Prime Minister to Prof. ----name---- appreciating his scholarly guidance and inspiration provided in his writings)
(Letter of appreciation from the Prime Minister to a Scientist)
(Letter of Appreciation by a High Official on receiving the Rank of Rover Scout)
On receiving the rank of Rover Scout (Letter of Appreciation by a High Official)
(Letter form the President of ----name of country---- to the Students of the Science and Technology High School)
(Letter from the Prime Minister in Response to a Letter Received from a 	Student)
(Letter received by a Student in Response to his Letter Addressed to the Prime Minister)
(Reply of the Prime Minister to the Letters Received from the Students of primary School)
(Letter from the Prime Minister's Secretariat to the Children in response to their letters)
(Letter from the Federal Minister for Education to the Headmaster, Government Primary School)	
(Letter of Appreciation from the Federal Minister for Education to the Headmaster, Government Secondary School)	
(Letter of Appreciation from the Federal Minister for Education to the Headmaster, Government Secondary School, Islamabad)	
Commendable Academic Performance (Congratulatory Letter form the Minister for Education to the Headmaster of a Secondary School)
(Letter of Appreciation from the Chairman, Pakistan Council for Science & Technology, Islamabad to the Vice Chancellor Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan)
(Letter from the Prime Minister to a Volunteer appreciating his incredible voluntary work)
Welfare Activities (Letter of Appreciations sent by the Prime Minister to the Welfare Organization for disabled Persons)	
(Appreciation Letter form the Prime Minister to a Social Worker)
(Letter from the Minister for Education to the Founder of the Education Institution)	
(Letter of Appreciation from the P.M. Secretariat (Public) to a   Welfare Organization)










(D.O. Letter from the Prime Minister to Professor ----(name)----appreciating his scholarly guidance and inspiration provided in his writings
The Prime Minister
Place, date--------------------
Dear Professor-------------------,
It is with the greatest pleasure that I send you my warm congratulations on the occasion of your----------------Birthday. 
It is a tremendous milestone especially for someone who has achieved so much.
It is -------------------years this week since I was privileged to become Prime Minister. 
Many people have been most kind in the comments on what the Government has been able to achieve in that time. 
There is of course so much to do. But none of it would have been possible without the values and beliefs to set on the right road and provide the right sense of direction. 
The leadership and inspiration that your work and thinking gave us were absolutely crucial and we owe you a great debt.
With every good wish*,
Yours sincerely*,  
(------name-------)
Professor--------------
---------address-------

(Letter of appreciation from the Prime Minister to a scientist )
The Prime Minister
Place, date-------------
Dear  Professor----------------------,
Thank you for your letter dated-----------I was indeed informed about the good news by ----name of Research Organization of Science and Technology----- and I should have written to you earlier.
2. It is very encouraging that so many scientists of our country were included in the team that discovered the -------------and I would like to congratulate you and your colleagues from------------------ on this success. 
I believe that you and your colleagues will continue your hard work in the service of our nation and humanity.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
(----name----)
Respectable Professor----------------------
-----name of institution-----
---------address---------------
On receiving the Award of Rover Scouts (Letter of appreciation by a High Official)
Dear------------------,
Congratulations on receiving the Boy Scouts' highest award Rover Scout. 
We are proud of your accomplishment. 
You have received this award through your commitment and Perservarance. 
2. Good luck to you in your future endeavours and remember. 
You are our nation's future .
Yours sincerely, 
(-----name------)
Mr. ---------------------------,
------------address-----------
(On receiving the rank of Rover Scout Letter of Appreciation by a High Official)
Name------------------
----designation-------
No.--------------------------				         Place, date------------------
Dear--------------------,
Congratulations on receiving the rank of Rover Scout.  
This honor is a testament to your hard work and dedication over several years and you should be proud.
2. Becoming a Rover Scout undoubtedly allowed you to learn many valuable life lessons, acquire numerous important skills, adopt guiding principles and forge new and lasting friendships.  
I know this because I was once a Boy Scout. 
3. To a Rover Scout, there is no limit to what can be achieved through earnest effort. I encourage you to always pursue "honour, loyalty, courage and service" throughout your life. 
I know that these values, alongwith the leadership skills you perfected while striving towards the Award of Rover. 
I hope that you will serve well in all your future endeavours.
Yours sincerely,
(----name----)
---designation--- 
Mr. -----------------------------
-------------address-----------
(Letter form the President of ----name of the country---- to the Students of the Science and Technology High School)
The President
No.------------------------						Place, date---------------
Dear Students,
I feel very happy to know about your hard work and accomplishments. -----name of country---- needs students like you who are trying hard in school. 
I hope that you will continue your best efforts to prepare for the career you want to pursue.
2. Since real education means overall development of the personality of a student, I expect you to participate in all the activities of your educational institution.
3. Young people like you are tomorrow's leaders. You have inspired me and given tremendous hope for the future. 
I wish you all the best.
Yours sincerely,
(-------name-------)
Name------------------------
---name of the Group------
(Letter from the Prime Minister's Office in Response to a Letter Received from a Student)
Prime Minister's Office
From: ------name---------Place, date----------designation------
Tel.-------------------------
Dear Miss----------------,
I am writing on behalf of the Prime Minister to thank you for your recent letter. 
While homework is not compulsory, the Government believes that learning from home is an essential part of a good education. 
It is not just about reinforcing what you learn in the classroom, although that is important. A good, well organized homework programme helps children and young people to develop as successful, independent learners throughout their lives.
2. The Prime Minister knows that many schools set homework for their pupils because they believe that homework gives them the chance to practice what they have learnt in school and helps them to make progress with their learning. 
The amount of time young people spend on homework varies from school to school, depending on the age and needs of pupils. 
It is up to your teachers to decide how much homework you should be asked to do and I am pleased that they are encouraging you to offer your views on this issue. 
3. The Prime Minister certainly wants you to be able to enjoy your time at school and also have time to do other things which you enjoy after school and over the school holidays. 
However he also thinks that properly set and marked homework can help you with your learning. 
Thank you again for writing and  1wish you well with your future studies.
Your sincerely,
(-----name-----)
----designation-----
Miss----------------
Address
(Letter received by a Student in Response to his Letter Addressed to the Prime Minister)
Prime Minister's Secretariat
Name -------------
------designation----
Tel.-------------------
No.---------------------				Place, date-------------------
Dear-------------------,
I am writing this letter on behalf of the Prime Minister to thank you for your letter dated---------------------.
2. The Prime Minister very much appreciates the time you have taken to write him. 
Your views were very well expressed.
3. As the -----------------Division and ----------------Division have responsibility for the matters you have raised, I am forwarding your letter to them so that they are aware of your views.
Thank you once again for writing a letter to the Prime Minister.
Yours sincerely,
(------name------)
designation------------
Mr.----------------------
--------address---------
(Reply of the Prime Minister to the Letters Received from the Students of Primary School)
Prime Minister's Secretariat
Name ----------------
------designation----
No.---------------------		                   Place,  date-------------------
Dear Children,
The Prime Minister has asked me to thank you for your letters.
2. I hope you will understand that due to the huge number of letters, the Prime Minister receives every weak, it is not always possible for him to reply personallty.
3. It was very interesting to know what you have been learning about. 
Your letters were extremely well-written and views very well-expressed. 
It is obvious that you care deeply about letter-writing and have learnt a lot about it.
4. May I also take this opportunity to wish you well with your continued studies.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-----)
designation-----------
Dear Students,
Primary School
----name of area-----
----name of city------
(Letter from the Prime Minister's Secretariat to the Children in response to their letters)
Prime Minister's Secretariat(Public)
Name-------------------
-------designation------
Tel.-----------------------
Dear Children,
I am writing on behalf of the Prime Minister to thank you for your excellent letters that were sent to this Secretariat by Ms.-------------------------.
2. The Prime Minister very much appreciates your interesting messages. 
He really enjoyed reading all your letters, they were all very imaginative and thoughtful. 
You have really worked hard on them.
Yours sincerely,
(------name--------)
Dear Children,
--------address--------
(Letter from the Federal Minister for Education to the Headmaster, Government Primary School)
Federal Minister for Education
Government of ---------------------
No.----------------Place,  date----------------------
Dear Mr.----------------,
I would like to congratulate you, members of your staff and your students for the very high level of progress in their studies in the school.
2. Your school's results show that your school is amongst the top 5% of schools in ----name of the acapital----- 
Thank you for your hard work and professionalism in producing such high standard.
3. Congratulations again to you and your staff for all you have achieved.
With best wishes,
Your sincerely,
(-------name-------)
Mr.-----------------------
Headmaster,
Government Primary School,
-----------address---------
(Letter of Appreciation from the Federal Minister for Education to the Headmaster, Government Secondary School)
Federal Minister for Education
Government of ------------------
No.---------------------				             Place, date-----------------------
Dear--------------------,
Please accept my heartiest congratulations on the excellent performance of your school in the SSC-II (Annual 2018) Examination held by the Federal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Islamabad.
2. The commendable academic performance of your school is the result of your effective leadership, exceptional guidance and managerial skill. 
I also understand that you have a team of dedicated teachers who are expert in communication skills, have deep knowledge and passion for their subject matter and possess the ability to build caring relationships with students.
3. I hope that you will continue your efforts to create a safe learning environment in which students work hard to achieve their goals while maintaining an appropriate balance of academic, physical and social endeavours.
4. Again, I extend my congratulations on this pleasant occasion and I wish you all the best for your future achievements.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-----------)
Mr.-----------------------
Headmaster
Government Secondary School,
-----------address----------
(Letter of Appreciation from the Federal Minister for Education to the  Headmaster, Government Secondary School)
Federal Minister for Education
Government of ------------------
No.-----------Place , date---------------------
Dear Mr.--------------------------
I offer you my heartiest congratulations on the excellent performance of your students in the Secondary School Examination Part-II of the Federal Board of Secondary Education (FBSE).
2. It is teachers like you who motivate students and help them recognize their strengths and weaknesses. 
They play the most critical role in influencing the minds and personalities of the students. 
They are important role models for students and have a big impact on their academic performance. 
In fact they play a cardinal role in the building up of the character of the next generation.
3. I sincerely thank you for your commitment and dedication and appreciate your great efforts in building the nation for tomorrow.
4. I hope that you will continue to develope students into individuals who have integrity and noble values as well as moral standards.
With my best wishes and warmest regards,
Your sincerely,
(------name--------)
Mr. --------------------
Headmaster,
Government Secondary School,
----------address--------
(Commendable Academic Performance: Congratulatory letter form the Minister for Education to the Headmaster of a Secondary School)
Federal Minister for Education
Government of ------------------
No.------------Place, date-------------------
Dear-----------------------,
I congratulate you on the admirable academic performance of the students of your school in the Secondary School Examination, -----year---- of the Federal Board of Secondary Education-----------------------.
2. It is your leadership and managerial skill which have enabled your students to achieve excellent performance. 
I am sure that your exceptional guidance will continue to ensure imilar performance of your school in the years to come.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-----)
Mr.-----------------------
Headmaster,
Government  secondary school ------
----------address---------
Letter of Appreciation from the Chairman, Pakistan Council for Science & Technology, Islamabad to the Vice Chancellor Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan
Pakistan Council for Science & Technology
(Ministry of Science and Technology), Islamabad
Chairman
Tel.------------
No. PCST-1(2)2015-Misc-26/2017 Islamabad the 16th February 2017
Prof. Dr. Ihsan Ali
Vice Chancellor Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan
Subject: Letter of Appreciation-Research Productivity Award 2015
Dear Prof. Dr. Ihsan Ali,
Pakistan Council for Science and Technology conducts regular evaluation for Research Productivity Award (RPA) 
which provide information about the productive scientists of Pakistan
based on research related parameters including authorship of books, PhD research supervision, cumulative impact factor and citations for the papers published in impact factor journals, patents granted, awards won and winning of competitive grants etc.
During the last concluded RPA 2015, a total of 0 4scientists of your reputed university were amongst the awardees based on their research contributions for the year 2014. 
The list of awardees is attached.
I congratulate you and the award recipients for this achievement. 
I would also like to mention here that application for the RPA is voluntary in nature and awards are decided based on applicant's data available with council.
It you wish, an award distribution ceremony can be worked out at your institution to appreciate contributions of the awardee(s). 
Any forthcoming conference/workshop/symposium planned at your institution could be employed as an opportunity for the purpose, which would act as stimulator for other scientists of university to be included in the list of awardee in future annual exercises of RPA scheme of PCST.  
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Prof. Dr. Anwar-ul-Hassan Gilani SI)
Enclosure: List of All awardees
(Letter from the Prime Minister to a Volunteer appreciating his incredible voluntary work)
The Prime Minister
Place, date---------------------
Dear--------------------,
You will be pleased to hear that Mr.---------------------wrote to me highlighting the outstanding voluntary work you do. 
2. Selfless volunteers like you are doing fantastic work and inspirational efforts all across the country. 
Such outstanding individuals are making a change in the society and inspiring other people.
3. Your contribution is very much appreciated. It is truly inspirational to hear about all the incredible volunteering work performed by you. 
We acknowledge the positive impact of the voluntary work on the society.
Yours sincerely,
(-----name------)
Mr.----------------------
--------address---------
Welfare Activities (Letter of Appreciations sent by the Prime Minister to the Welfare Organization for disabled Persons)
Prime Minister
Place, Date---------------------
Dear Mr.----------------------,
Thank you for your recent letter dated----------------, sending me your condolences, following the death of my ---------------. I am very grateful to you for your kind words.
2. As you know, my father greatly admired ----name of founder of organization------ and the determination he had to live life to the full despite his disability. 
It is heartening that the ------name of organization---- is continuing to inspire and help adults and children with disabilities, and I am delighted to provide the enclosed endorsement for the Foundation's website.
3. Please accept my best wishes for continuing success with the very valuable work you do.
Yours sincerely,
(----name-----)
Mr.---------------------
----name of welfare organization----
-----name of place-------
(Appreciation Letter form the Prime Minister to a Social Worker)
The Prime Minister
Place, date------------------
Dear------------------------,
You will be pleased to know that Mr.-------------------wrote a letter to me about your voluntary social activities in the service of the people.
2. Social workers like you are doing fantastic social work all across the country. 
Their selfless social activities, are making a change in the society and inspiring others. 
It is truly inspirational to hear about incredible voluntary activities which are taking place to uplift the deprived segments of the society.
3. Your incredible and valuable services have positive impact on the public. I hope you will continue your voluntary work in the service of the nation.
4. Thank you for making a difference.
Yours sincerely,
(------name------)
Mr.----------------------
--------address--------
(Letter from the Minister for Education to the Founder of the Educational Institution
Minister for-----------------
No.-----------------Place, date---------------------
Dear Miss.---------------------------,
I am pleased to know about your excellent initiative of establishing ----name of foundation---- to provide quality education to children from disadvantaged sections of society in ------------------. 
I appreciate the dedication and commitment shown by you to empower people through education. 
We need more people to follow the example set by you.
2. On the occasion of Teachers Day, I take this opportunity to wish you and your team all the best in their future endeavors.
Yours sincerely,
(------name-------)
Miss. --------------------------
Founder-----name of foundation-----
------name of place-------
(Letter of Appreciation from the P.M Secretariat (Public) to a Welfare Organization)
Prime Minister's Secretariat (Public),
Name--------------------
Joint Secretary
Tel.-------------------
No.-----------------------					        Place, date-----------------
Dear Mr.---------------------,
Thank you for your letter dated------------------to the Prime Minister about the welfare activities of the ------name of organization------.
2. The Prime Minister appreciates the interest you have taken in the work of charity and its ongoing activities to raise awareness of the importance of education of children.
3. The Prime Minister sends his good wishes to everyone who is participating in tackling this important issue.
Yours sincerely,
Mr.-------------------------------
-----------designation----------
----name of organization-----
---------------place--------------

Management Services Wing (Establishment division) and its Functions
(List of Contents)
(a) History of the M. S Wing (Establishment Division) and its Functions
(b) Training Needs Assessment Survey
Review of the --------------Division
(D.O. Letter from the Secretary, --------Division to the Secretary, Establishment Division - Review of the ---------Division)
(D.O. Letter from Dr. Rashid Ahmad Khan Director General Management Services Division to Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Assistant Director, STI, Islamabad)
(Training Needs Assessment Survey)
(D.O. Letter from Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Assistant Director, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad to Dr. Rashid Ahmad Khan, Director General Management Services Division)
Management Services Wing (Establishment Division) and its Function










(a) Management Services Wing (Establishment Division)



























(b) Training Needs Assessment Survey
(Needs Assessment)

(Training Needs Assessment -TNA)













(Factors that may lead to Training Needs)






(Purpose of the Training Needs Assessment)


















(Steps in a Training Needs Assessment)
(Identify Problems and Needs)





(Determine Design of Needs Analysis)











(Types of Needs Assessment )





















(Collection of Data)



(Survey Methods)






(Analysis of Data and Preparation of Recommendations/Report 




(Implementation)








(Review of Feedback/Collected Data)







































(Review of the ---------Division
(Letter from the Secretary, --------Division to the Secretary, Establishment Division)
My dear-----------------,
I feel that the organizational structure, distribution of work to various wings and the flow of business in the -------------Division require a review. 
I will be grateful if you could arrange to send a Management Services team to us to carry out this study with a view to suggest an optional arrangement for expeditious disposal of work. 
The leader of the team may see me before he starts the work.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-------name-------)
Mr. -------------------------
Secretary,
Establishment Division, Islamabad
(D.O.Letter from Dr. Rashid Ahmad Khan Director General, Management Services Division to Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Assistant Director, STI, Islamabad)
Dr. Rashid Ahmad Khan Government of Pakistan
Director General Cabinet secretariat
Tel.----------- Management Services Division*, Islamabad.
D.O. No.-------------Islamabad, date, 5th. September, 1989.
Subject: Training Needs Assessment Survey
My dear Assistant Director,
This Division * has been asked by the Establishment Division to undertake training needs assessment survey of the federally controlled occupational groups/services. 
The main objective of the survey is to improve the training system for civil servants.
2. We are pleased that our computer has selected your name as one of the respondents for the said survey. 
We are therefore, sending you the enclosed proforma with the request that the same may please be completed and sent to this office by 13th September, 1989.
3. We assure you that your observations and suggestions will be kept confidential and will be used only for research purposes.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Dr. Rashid Ahmed Khan)
Director General
Mr. Jamshaid Alam
Assistant Director,
Secretariat Training Institute, Sector H-9, Islamabad
Management Services Division is now a part of the Establishment Division., as a wing.
(D.O. Letter from Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Assistant Director, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad to Dr. Rashid Ahmad Khan, Director General Management Services Division)
Jamshaid Alam,					 
Assistant Director,
Tel.-------------------
No.----------------Islamabad, date----------------------
Subject: Training Needs Assessment Survey
Dear Director General,
Kindly refer to your do letter No.-------------dated 5th september 198 5on the subject mentioned above.
2. The proforma, duly completed, is forwarded herewith.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Jamshaid Alam)
Assistant Director
Encl: As above,*1
Dr. Rashid Ahmad Khan,
Management Services Division,*2
Cabinet Secretariat Islamabad
Not included in this book
Management Services Division is now a part of Establishment Division

Memorandum of Understanding
(List of Contents)
(Proposal Letter for Memorandum of Understanding between two institutions)
Memorandum of Understanding----Signing Ceremony
(Letter from University of -----name---- to ----name of institution----, University of -------------)















(Public International Law)






(Advantages of the MOU)






(Proposal letter for Memorandum of Understanding between two institutions)
University of --------------------
Place ,  date--------------------
Dear-------------------,
I would like to thank you for your recent letter confirming your interest in developing a mutually beneficial relationship between our two institutions. 
I appreciate president -----name----- for his letter dated -----------------, in which he graciously accepted our invitation to participate with us as a distinguished research partner.
2. As indicated in my letter to President ----name-----, our institution is currently embarking on an ambitious plan to strengthen its degree programs and expand its research activities 
with the aim of becoming one of the top academic and research institutions in the World. 
Central to that program's success is our quest to develop joint research initiatives in various scientific fields with selected premier world institutions such as yours. 
We are therefore honoured that we will be able to work as colleagues with your institution's distinguished leaders and outstanding faculty members to realize the objectives of our ambitious strategic plan.
3. Following receipt of President ----name----, letter of interest, I requested the relevant departments here to develop a draft framework of the proposed memorandum of understanding that would identify the areas of interest that our mutual cooperation might encompass. 
Once such areas of common interest are agreed upon by both parties, I would look forward to welcoming you and other officers of your institution to formally sign the Memorandum of understanding in the near future.
4. Accordingly, with your permission, I have taken the liberty of drafting the enclosed draft Memorandum of Understanding for your review.
5. I hope that the proposed areas of cooperation that we have put forward are acceptable to you. 
I look forward to receiving your views and comments in the near future.
6. Thanking you again for your support and cooperation.
Yours sincerely,
(----name-----)
Mr.----------------------------
-------designation----------
----name of institution-----------address-----------
Memorandum of Understanding----Signing Ceremony 
(Letter from University of -----name----- to -----name of institution----, University of -------------)
Name-------------University of ----------------
------designation----
Tel--------------------
No.----------------Place,  date-------------------
Dear Prof. Dr.------------------,
On behalf of the ----name of institution----, we are pleased to sign bilateral cooperation memorandum of Understanding with -----name of institution----, University of ----name-------. We are of the view that the MOU may provide increased collaboration, cooperation and interaction for the further promotion and understanding of academic performance.
2. As we discussed, the MOU signing ceremony will be held on ---------- at --------, University of ----------------.
3. Thank you again for your thoughtful gift and your commitment to our institution.
4. Prof. Dr. ------------------, the President, University of -----------------, thank you for your agreement. It is really a great honor for us to sign an MOU with you. 
We look forward to starting our cooperation and we are sure that together we are going to achieve a lot of success in our academic activities.
With profound regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-----name-----)
----designation-----
Prof. Dr. -------name--------
----------designation---------
----name of institution------
University of -----------------
--------name of place---------

National Day Anniversary
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note (National Day)
78th Pakistan Day (Congratulatory Letter from HE Xi Jinping, President of People's Republic of China to H.E, President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan)
78th Pakistan Day (Congratulatory Letter from H.E. Wong Yi, Foreign Minister of People's Republic of China to HE, Sartaj Aziz Advisor to the Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan)
National Day of Brunei Darussalam (Letter of Congratulations from Mr.  Mamnoon Hussain, President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to His Majesty Slutan Haji Hassan al Balkiah Mu'izzadin Waddaullah ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Haji Omar Ali Saifuddin Sa'adul Khairi Waddien, Sultan and Yana Di-Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam) 
National Day  Celebrations (Congratulatory Letter from the President, ---name of country--- to the President, ---name of country----)
Independence Day Anniversary (Congratulatory Letter from the President, ---name of country--- to the President ---name of country----)
National Day Celebrations (Congratulatory Letter from the Prime Minister, ---name of country--- to the President, ---name of country---)
National Day (Congratulatory Letter from the Prime Minister, ---name of country--- to the Prime Minister, ---name of country---)
Independence Day Anniversary (Letter from the Prime Minister, ---name of country--- to the Prime Minister, ---name of country---)
National Day












78th Pakistan Day
(Congratulatory Letter from HE Xi Jinping, President of People's Republic of China to H.E,  Mr. Mamnoon Hussain, President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan)
Beijing, March 23rd 2017
H.E. Mr. Mamnoon Hussain,
President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan,
Islamabad
Respected Mr. President,
On behalf of the Chinese Government and people and in my own name, I would like to extend my warm congratulations and best wishes to your Excellency and through you to the Pakistan Government and people on the occasion of the 78th Pakistan Day.
In recent years, under the leadership of your Excellency and the Pakistan Government, the people of Pakistan have properly responded to different kinds of challenges, maintained national security and stability, accelerated social and economic development and continuously improved people's livelihood. 
I rejoiced at the progress made by Pakistan in the cause of its national construction.
Over the past year, China-Pakistan relations maintained a rapid momentum of development, with China Pakistan Economic Corridor moving into the stage of full implementation. By taking opportunity of working together for the "Belt and Road" initiative, both sides are making endeavours of jointly building China-Pakistan Community of Shared Destiny. 
It conforms to the common interests of both countries and the two peoples, and is conducive to the peace and development of the region as well as the whole world. 
I attach great importance to the development of China-Pakistan relations. I am ready to work with you to push forward China-Pakistan all-weather strategic cooperative partnership to a new level.
May I wish Pakistan enjoy prosperity and its people well-being.
Xi Jinping
President
People's Republic of China
78th Pakistan Day
(Congratulatory Letter from H.E. Wang Yi, Foreign Minister of People's Republic of China to H.E, Sartaj Aziz, Advisor to Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan)
Beijing, March 23, 2017
H.E. Mr. Sartaj Aziz,
Advisor to the Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs,  
Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Islamabad
Your Excellency,
On the occasion of the 78th Pakistan Day, I would like to extend my warm congratulations and best wishes to Your Excellency.
In recent years, China- Pakistan relations maintain a robust momentum of development. 
The two countries have witnessed frequent high level exchanges. 
The mutually beneficial cooperation in all fields, with the construction of China Pakistan Economic Corridor at the core, has enjoyed comprehensive and in-depth development. 
Both countries maintain close coordination and cooperation in international affairs.
I am ready to work with Your Excellency to make joint efforts to push for the continuous progress of China-Pakistan all-weather strategic cooperative partnership.
May I wish Pakistan enjoy prosperity and its people well-being.
(Wang Yi)
Foreign Minister
The People's Republic of China
National Day of Brunei Darussalam
 (Letter of Congratulations from Mr.  Mamnoon Hussain, President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to His Mejesty Sultan Haji Hassan al Bolkiah Mu'izzadin Waddaullah ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Haji Omar Ali Saifuddien Sa'adul Khairi Waddien, Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam) 
The  President
Islamabad,  date--------------------
Your Majesty,
On behalf of the Government and people of Pakistan and on my own behalf, I have great pleasure in conveying to Your Majesty and to the Government and people of Brunei our warmest felicitations on the occasion of the National Day of Brunei.
It is my sincere hope that the ties of friendship and cooperation between our two countries will be further strengthened and deepened in the years ahead.
I take this opportunity to convey my best wishes for Your Majesty's personal health, long life and happiness and for the continued progress and prosperity of the people of Brunei Darussalam.
Please accept, Your Majesty, the assurances of my highest consideration.
(Mamnoon Hussain)
President
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
His Majesty
Sultan Haji Hassan al Bolkiah
Mu'izzn Woddaullah
ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Haji Omar Ali 
Saifuddien Sa'adul Khairi Waddien, 
Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei 
National Day  Celebrations 
(Congratulatory Letter from the President, ---name of country---to the President, ---name of country----)
The President
Dear Mr. President,
On behalf of the people of -----------------and on my own behalf, I extend my lease felt congratulations to You and to all the people of your country on the occasion of national day of the ---name of country----.
I believe that we will continue making combined efforts towards developing and strengthening traditional friendship and cooperation between ---name of country--- and ---name of country----.
On this remarkable day, I wish you the best of health, success in your endeavours for peace and prosperity for the friendly people of ---name of country----in the country.
Yours sincerely,
President

---name of country----

His Excellency Mr.--------------,
President
-----name of country-------
------name of capital-------
Independence Day Anniversary
(Congratulatory Letter from the President, ---name of country--- to the President ---name of country----)
The President
Dear Mr. President,
On the occasion of the --------------------anniversary of the independence of the --------------------, on behalf of the -------------------Government and the -----------------people, as well as in my own name, I would like to extend my warmest congratulations and best wishes to you, and through you, the government and people of ---name of country-----.
2. --name sending of country--- is ---name of receiving country's---- important partner of cooperation in the ---name----region. 
Thanks to the joint efforts of the both sides in recent years, remarkable achievements have been witnessed in ---name of sending country---, ----name of receiving country----relations with growing political mutual trust and fruitful pragmatic cooperation.
Our two countries are now not only close friends of mutual trust, but also good partners of mutual benefits.
3. Your Excellency, I attach great importance to the development of ---name of  sending country---, ---name of the receiving country--- relations and stand ready to work with you to further promote the existing bilateral friendship to a new height.
May I wish your country, prosperity and people happiness 
Please accept 'Your excellency' the assurances of my highest consideration.
Yours sincerely,
President
---name of country----
His Excellency Mr.--------------,
President,
-----name of country-------
------name of capital------
National Day Celebrations 
(Congratulatory Letter from the  Prime Minister, ---name of country--to the President, ---name of country---)
The Prime Minister
Place, date--------------------
Excellency,
On the solemn occasion of the National Day of the ----name of country----, I have the great pleasure to extend my warmest congratulations and best wishes of happiness on your great success in the fulfilment of your noble task.
I am convinced that the existing relations of friendship and cooperation between our two countries will be further developed and strengthened for the common interests of our two nations.
With warm regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-----name------)
Prime Minister
His Excellency Mr.------------------,
President
-----name of country------
----name of capital--------
Aniversary of the National Day
(Congratulatory Letter from the  Prime Minister, ---name of country---to the Prime Minister, ---name of country---)
The Prime Minister
Place, date----------------------
Dear Prime Minister-------------------,
On the occasion of the ----th Anniversary of the National Day of ----name of country----, on behalf of the Government and people of ----name of sending country---- and on my own behalf, I have the great honour to convey my warmest congratulations and best wishes to Your Excellency and the Government and people of ---name of receiving country----.
It is my great pleasure to note that the long existing friendly relations and cooperation between ---name of country---- and ---name of country----have reached ---th anniversary in ---year----.
---name of sending country---- Government and people highly value and express gratitude for the remarkable assistance and support rendered by the Government and people of ----name of receiving country---- to ---name of sending country---. Over the past years, which have continuously contributed to the socio-economic development of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. 
I am confident that such friendly relations and good cooperation will be further enhanced to new heights in the years to come.
I would like to take this opportunity to wish Your Excellency good health, well-being, success in your noble task.
Your sincerely,
His Excellency Mr.------------------,
Prime Minister,
----name of country-----
----name of capital------
Independence Day Anniversary
(Letter from the  Prime Minister, ---name of country--- to the Prime Minister, ---name of country---)
The Prime Minister
Place, date-------------------------
Dear Mr.----------------------,
On the joyful occasion of the Independence Day of ---name of country----- on behalf of the ---------Government and the People of ---------------, I have the great pleasure to extend my most cordial congratulations and best wishes of happiness to Your Excellency and to the People of ----------------.
I firmly believe that the good relations of friendship and cooperation existing between our two countries will be further expanded and consolidated for the common interests of our two peoples.
With my best wishes for your personal good health and greater success to the fulfillment of your noble course.
Yours sincerely,
(-----name------)
Prime Minister
His Excellency Mr. -------------------,
Prime Minister
---name of country-----
----name of capital------

National Seerat Conference
(List of Contents)


(D.O. Letter from Mr. Suhail Aamir, Secretary, Ministry of Religious Affairs & Inter Faith Harmony to all the Federal Secretaries, Additional Secretaries Incharge, Islamabad)
























































































































































National Cecret Conference
(D.O. Letter from Mr. Sohail Aamir, Secretary, Ministry of Religious Affairs & Interfaith Harmony to all the Federal Secretaries, Additional Secretaries Incharge Islamabad)
Sohail Aamir,
Government of Pakistan
Secretary
Ministry of Religious Affairs & Interfaith Harmony
Tel.-----------
No. 3(4)/DD(R&S) Islamabad, 23rd December, 2014
Dear Secretary,
Assalam-o-Alaikum
I take this opportunity to inform that as per past practice, the Ministry of Religious Affairs and inter-Faith Harmony is organizing a National Seerat Conference on Sunday the 12th Rabi ul Awwal, 143 6A.H./04th January, 201 5at Pak China Friendship Centre, Islamabad. 
A copy of the programme is enclosed.
2. In order to pay homage to the Holy Prophet (S.A.W.S.) as a part of countrywide Eid Milad un Nabi (S.A.W.S.) celebrations, it is requested to plan and organize similar programmes. 
The expenditure on such programmes would be met from the budgetary grant of the respective Ministries/Divisions/ Departments /Organizations. 
3.The enclosed programme may kindly be circulated to all departments, autonomous/semi autonomous organizations, attached departments etc., functioning under your administrative control, to observe the occasion in a befitting manner. 
Best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Sohail Aamir)
All Federal Secretaries, Additional Secretaries Incharge, Ministries/Divisions (by name), Islamabad



















Official Language of Pkaistan

1. Constitutional Status of Urdu
2. Establishment of National Language Authority
3. National Language Promotion Department
(D.O.Letter dated 26th February, 198 5from Mr. Khalid Umer Farooqi, Additional Secretary, Cabinet Division to all the Federal Secretaries and all the Chief Secretaries of the Provinces)
Constitutional Status of Urdu






(Establishment of National Language Authority)





(National Language Promotion Department)


(Responsibilities)

(Finance)

(Advisory Board)

(Annual Report)

(Publications)













































































(D.O. Letter dated 26th February, 198 5from Mr. Khalid Umer Faruqui, Additional Secretary, Cabinet Division to all the Federal Secretaries and all the Chief Secetaries of the Provinces)
Government of Pakistan
(Cabinet Secretariat) Cabinet Division
N. 10/2/85-NLA Rawalpindi, the 26th February, 1985
Khalid Umer Faruqui
Additional Secretary
Tel.---------------------
Subject: Introduction of Urdu as the Official Language
My dear,
Kindly refer to the Presidential Directive No. 22 8of 198 4on the subject noted above. In this connection, I would like to state that about 180 0officers of various Ministries/Divisions have by now completed Daftri Urdu Course being conducted by the Allama lqbal Open University, 
Besides, the first course in Urdu shorthand/typing would conclude by the end of April, 1985. It appears to be necessary that the expertise and technical skill acquired by the trained officers/ officials should not only be retained but it should also be improved. 
Following instructions are accordingly issued for compliance in view of the objective indicated above:
(1) Officers should dispose a part of their official work in Urdu so that stenographers/typists who have received training in Urdu shorthand and typing continue their practice and improve their recently acquired skill. 
Every officer is expected to assess as to how much work he can do in Urdu. The scope of work in Urdu should be gradually expanded.
(2) Brief noting on files may be done in Urdu to the extent possible. 
(3) Correspondence with the various officials in scale (1-4) e.g. Sweeper, Farash, Naib Qasid, Jamadar, Driver etc. may be done in Urdu. 
 (4) Letters received in Urdu may be diarized in Urdu. Replies thereof should also be given in Urdu. In addition, correspondence with the public should be done in Urdu.
 
 
(5) Office orders/internal instructions should be issued in Urdu. Minutes of the internal meetings should be recorded in Urdu. 
(6) Brief orders on fresh receipts e.g. "Please put up immediately"; "Please put up with relevant records" etc. may be recorded and signed in Urdu.
(7) Brief reminders should be issued in Urdu to the extent possible. 
(8) Name plates of officers/ officials should be displayed in Urdu. 
(9) All the work in General Section should be done in Urdu. Demand for various items e.g. stationery etc. should be sent to the General Section in Urdu. 
(10) Leave application should be submitted in Urdu. 
(11) One-third of the stenographers/typists to be recruited in future should have the required skill in both the languages. 
(12) Typewriters to be purchased in future should include Urdu typewriters on the basis of requirements. 
(13) Stationery for official use may be printed in Urdu. 
2. Listed above are some initial steps. With increase in the number of trained officials, the volume of work disposed of in Urdu is expected to increase. 
In some offices Urdu is extensively used prior to issue of these instructions. 
It should be continued and increased as far as possible. 
You are requested to furnish a compliance report on the implementation of these instructions within three months.
Yours sincerely, 
(K.U. Faruqui)
All the Federal Secretaries/ Additional Secretaries Incharge/ Joint Secretaries Incharge, Ministries/Divisions Islamabad/Rawalpindi. 
Copy for information and necessary action to:
1. All Chief Secretaries. 
2. Principal Information Officer, M/o Information and Broadcasting, Islamabad. 
(K.U. Faruqui)
Additional Secretary
Copy for information to:
1. COS to the President. 
2. Chairman, National Language Authority, Islamabad. 
(K.U. Faruqui)
Additional Secretary





Pension System for Federal Government Employees 
(List of Contents)


Introductory Note
(Recommendations of the Committee Constituted by the Federal Ombudsman Pakistan)
Specimen English
(D.O.Letter from Mr. Jamal Abdul Nasir, Deputy Auditor General Pakistan)
(D.O. Letter dated 30th June 201 6from Mr. Rana Asad Amin, Auditor General of Pakistan)
(D.O.Letter dated 30th June 201 6from Mr. Ashraf M.Wathra , Governor State Bank of Pakistan)
(Recommendations of the Committee
Constituted  by the Federal Ombudsman Pakistan)







(History of Service)

(Grant of Anticipatory Pension)


(Simplification of existing pension application form)

(No Objection/Demand Certificate)

(Compensation for the delay in payment of pension/ commutation)

(Re-calculation of pay fixation from 1st day of service)

(Withholding tax on pension)

(Family Pension)

(Direct Credit System)

(Re-imbursement of Medical Expenses)



(Prompt payment of pension as per authorisation)


(Payment of exact pension entitlement)

(Special counters for pension payment in the Banks)

(Standardized Templates/job description of Pension Welfare Officer-Approval of different steps)



(Nomination of eligible family member)



(On-line verification of LPC/Service Statement)

(Joint account in the Direct Credit Systam)

(Pension Payment Order)



(D.O.Letter from Mr. Jamal Abdul Nasir, Deputy Auditor General Pakistan)
Office of the Auditor-General of Pakistan (Audit House, Constitution Avenue) Islamabad
Jamal Abdul Nasir Usmani
Deputy Auditor General (FAO) June 23, 2016
Ph.--------------------	
Respected Salman Faruqui Sahib,

It gives me great pleasure to acknowledge with thanks the report on pension reforms which you have kindly forwarded.
The report is quite comprehensive and will go a long way in bringing relief to retired government servants who have been facing a host of problems in finalization of their pension cases.
I feel that the report is a manifestation of your commitment to the cause of a much neglected segment of our society.
Thanking you once again.
Yours Sincerely,
(Jamal Abdul Nasir Usmani)
Honorable Mr. Salman Faruqui,
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan




(D.O. Letter from Mr. Rana Asad Amin, Auditor General of Pakistan)
Rana Asad Amin, Office of the Auditor-General of Pakistan
Auditor General (FAO)
(Audit House, Constitution Avenue) Islamabad
D.O.No. 171/673/Pension/Par File June 28, 2016
Respected Salman Faruqui Sahib,

Please accept my heart felt appreciation of the effort made by all concerned under your leadership for the benefit of retired personnel.
This should serve as a useful guide for all the pension authorizing offices.
2. As auditor of the pension expenditure budget I feel that it is all the more benefiting that Account/ pensions authorizing offices must strictly comply with the procedures.
3. A recent exercise in the same realm, namely "Special Audit of Pensions" has revealed that pension disbursing agencies like NBP and GPOs have not been following the SOPs giving rise to embezzlement/under/ over payments in pension. 
Similarly, post audit by Account Offices and reconciliation between Account Offices and NBP/GPOs needs efficient handling.
4. This is to assure you that as auditor of public funds, we are highly cognizant of the citizen's hardships and are with you in the efforts to make life better for the people of this country.
With best regards,
Yours Sincerely,
(Rana Assad Amin)
Mr.Salman Faruqi
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
President Asian Ombudsman Association
President Asian Region, International Ombudsman Institute

Comprehensive Report
(D.O.Letter  from Mr. Ashraf M.Wathra , Governor State Bank of Pakistan)
State Bank of Pakistan
Karachi
Ashraf M. Wathra
Governor
June 30, 2016
Mr. M Salman Faruqui
Thank you for sharing the comprehensive report on pension reforms prepared by the apex committee of experts.
I appreciate the commendable efforts made by your good office to address the long outstanding issues and sufferings of pensioners. 
While the substantive recommendations of the committee will bring about changes in the whole system, a rigorous implementation of these will lead towards achieving excellence of service standards.
State Bank of Pakistan being an autonomous body has its own comprehensive rules & procedures for pension payment. 
You will appreciate that SBP has dedicated Computerized Pension Calls headed by senior officers which enables SBP to finalize the pension cases within a week from the date of retirement of an employee. 
Besides paying pension at SPB counters, the pensioners are also facilitated by direct credit to their bank accounts. 
Additionally separate counters have been established to serve those government pensioners whose pension is drawn on SBP through Accountant Generals Office.  
Sincerely Yours,
Ashraf M. Wathra
Governor
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
36-Constitution of Pakistan, Islamabad

Performance Evaluation Report 
(List of Contents)
Introductory Note (ِِِAdverse Remarks)
(D.O. Letter from the Secretary, -------------Division to all the Head's of Attached Departments/Autonomous Bodies and all the officers of the -----------Division)
Ban against mentioning of Unfinished Departmental Proceedings in Confidential Reports(Performance Evaluation Reports) 
Letter from Secretary Establishment Division to all the Federal Secretaries)
Adverse Remarke in the Performance Evaluation Report























(a) Unlikely to progress further
(b) Unfit for further promotion  
(c) Not yet fit for promotion, but likely to become fit in due course of time

(d) Unfit for continued retention in service
(D.O.Letter from the Secretary, -------------Division to all the Head of Attached Departments/Autonomous Bodies and all the officers of the --------Division)
From:------- 
Name---------								
Government of Pakistan
designation--------								
Ministry of ---------------
Tel.---------------------------								--------------------
Division
No.--------------------------								
Islamabad, -----date------
Subject: Adverse Remarks in the Performance Evaluation Reports
My dear,
Under the existing instructions on Performance Evaluation: 
(a) All adverse remarks whether remediable or irremediable should be communicated in writing to the officer/official reported upon and copy of the communication placed in the dossier. 
(b) When a report is built on the individual opinions of the reporting and countersigning officers, it is only the opinion as accepted by the latter which should be communicated. 
(c) Remarks once recorded in ACR cannot be altered. If a reporting or countersigning officer changes his views on the officer/official reported upon, it could only be incorporated in the next year's report. 
d) The reporting officer should specifically state whether the defects reported have been already brought in another connection to the notice of the officer/official concerned.
2. As regards communication of adverse remarks the guiding principles are:
(i) As a general rule in no case should an officer/official be kept in total ignorance for any length of time that his superiors after sufficient  experience of his work are dissatisfied with him; in cases where a warning might eradicate or help to eradicate a particular fault, the advantages of prompt communication are obvious. 
(ii) Adverse remarks should be communicated to the officer/official concerned, mainly to enable him to make efforts for improvement. 
(iii) The effect of the communication of adverse entries should be carefully watched and the reporting officer should, when drawing up a report in the next year, state whether the officer/official reported on has or has not taken steps to remedy defect(s) to which his attention was drawn in a previous year. 
Such remarks should also be communicated to him so that he may know that his efforts to improve have not passed unnoticed. 
The method of communication in either case should be the same. 
(The adverse remarks are required to be communicated in writing or verbally. 
In the latter case, the fact of communication should be recorded on the confidential report and, if the officer so requests, the remarks should be given in writing.) 
3. The above guidelines have been taken from the Establishment Division (Management Services Wing) handbook on "A Guide to Performance Evaluation" (1991) and may be of interest to most of us who are required to submit reports, to countersign them or to tackle representations in cases of adverse evaluation. 
4. The need for exactitude in judgement and precision in observations are the inescapable minimum requirements of constructive performance evaluation. 
There is no room for after-thoughts, shoddy judgements or complicated subjectivism in assessment reports.
5. A report rendered recently on an official bristled witi: contradictions and tentative statements. 
The Reporting Officer's Pen Picture was as follow:
"He needs strict supervision and watch for normal functioning. 
For better performance one has to rely on managerial skills and tacts."
The Countersigning Officer's Pen Picture reads as under:
"He has done a good job but tends to be over enthusiastic and attempts to take credit for all his minor and major accomplishments. 
I must say he is resourceful but in his exuberance tends to overstep his jurisdiction." 
6. For the subsequent year, the Reporting Officer's Pen Picture was: "He posses(sic) enough experience to carry out routine tasks as a matter of his duty, yet he wishes to take credit for the paid jobs. 
A tactful disciplinary attitude would keep him on right track." The Countersigning Officer's Pen-Picture stated: "A very competent (official) who can be very efficient when he wants to be extremely resourceful but rather too boastful of his performance which could put off his superiors. Professionally sound but must learn to remain within bounds of his responsibilities." 
7. Together with a few other entries, these were treated as adverse remarks and communicated to the official who promptly represented. 
In his reply the Reporting Officer stated that "there was no intention to give adverse report" and recommended its upgradation. 
8. The above is just an illustration of the greater need for us to have a sound approach in formulating adverse entries in performance evaluation reports. 
Yours sincerely,
(-------name-------)
Additional Secretary
By name: All the Heads of Attached Departments
By name: All the Heads of Autonomous Bodies
Copy to all the Joint Secretaries, DGs, Dy. Secretaries, Directors, SOs and Dy. Directors, ------------Division, Islamabad.
Ban against mentioning of Unfinalized Departmental Proceedings in Confidential Reports) Letter from Establishment Division to all the Federal Secretaries 
It has been noticed that in some "Annual Confidential Reports*" of officers received from various Ministries, a reference is made to departmental proceedings which are still in progress against the officers concerned.
2. The Establishment Division feel that until and unless the result of such proceedings has been known and final orders, awarding punishment, if any, have been passed by the competent authority, it would not be connect to make any such reference as may have the effect of creating doubts about the conduct and character of the officers concerned. 
It can hardly be controverted that such a reference, although factually correct, if advertantly made, cannot fail to damage the officer's record even if in the long run, he is completely exonerated. 
3. In the circumstances, it is requested  that in the case of an officer against whom departmental proceedings are in progress, no mention, whatsoever , should be made about it in his "Annual Confidential Reports." 
Only when such proceedings have been finalized and the punishment, if any, has been awarded, should a mention about it be made in the Confidential Report. 
In such a case, a complete copy of the final order may be placed, as is usually done on his character roll.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely, 
Secretary Establishment Division
All Federal Secretaries, Additional Secretaries Incharge
Performance Evaluation Reports

Police Stations: Addressing of Maladministration and Recommendations for Good Administration Standards 

(Letter dated 1st July 2016 from Major General Aamir Abbasi Commandant, Command and Staff College, Quetta)
 (Letter dated 11th July 201 6from Rear Admiral M. Amjad Khan Niazi SI(M) SBt, Commandant, Pakistan Navy War College, Naval Complex Walton, Lahore)
 (Letter dated 26th August 2016 from Director General, Security Air Force, Pakistan Air Force, Air Headquarters Islamabad)
Police Stations: Addressing of Maladministration and Recommendations for Good Administration


























(Constitution of District Committees)
(Registration of FIRs)
(Registration of FIRs)
(Budget Allocation)
(Location of Police Station) 
(Forensic Service and Specialized Investigation Centres)
(Transparency)
(Facilities for Police Station Staff)
(Letter from Major General Aamir Abbasi  Commandant, Command and Staff College, Quetta)
Major General Aamir Abbasi Command and Staff College Quetta Cantonment
1st July 2016
Muhammad Salman Faruqui (NI)
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
Dear Mr. Faruqui,
Please accept my profound gratitude for sending us your reports on 'Administration of Prisons and Recommendations for Good Administration Standards' and "Addressing Mal-Administration in Police Stations". 
These reports are indeed a commendable effort towards introducing much needed reforms in administration of Prisons and Police Stations. 
Please convey my appreciations to all who have contributed towards compilation of these reports.
I thank you once again for remembering the College.
Yours sincerely,
(Letter from Rear Admiral M. Amjad Khan Niazi SI(M) SBt, 
Commandant Pakistan Navy War College, Naval Complex Walton, Lahore)


Commandant
Pakistan Navy War College
Naval Complex Walton Askari V, Gulberg III, Lahore 
Ph. Off:-------------
									   
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui NI(M)
The Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
36-Constitution Avenue, Islamabad
Respected  Mr. Salman Faruqui,   
   
It is a matter of immense honour for me to receive committee reports prepared under your able guidance on the directions of the Honourable Supreme Court of Pakistan on very pertinent and core issues pertaining "Maladministration in Police Department" and "Systematic Failures in the Administration of Prisons." 
The Honourable Court's decision to entrust your good office for such significant task is a reflection of the confidence which the Honourable Court has in your department. 
I would take this opportunity to appreciate the efforts of both committees on comprehensive and well-researched work. 
The committee probed pertinent issues from all relevant angles and has come up with a comprehensive way ahead to eradicate the weaknesses in the existing administration of Police and Prisons.
Although the committee has endeavored to unearth all possible issues in respective domains, however few suggestions are being made for your kind consideration to add value to the research work. 
The same are enclosed.
I hope you will find my view point useful and a value addition to a work, already very well done. 
I thank you for sharing your research reports with us and for giving me an opportunity to contribute towards improvement of the two important departments of the state.
Encl (As Stated)
With best wishes and regards
(-----signature------)
(Letter from Director General, Security, Pakistan Air Force, Pakistan Air Force, Air Headquarters Islamabad)
Director General, Security 
Pakisan Air Force
Air Headquarters, Islamabad
Tel:--------------------
2 6Augsut 2016
Dear Mr. Salman Faruqui,
Assalam,-o-Alaikum
It gives me immense pleasure to acknowledge the colossal efforts put in by the Department of Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan under your leadership in bringing up the "Report of The Committee to Examine the Systemic Failures in the Administration of Prisons and to Recommend Good Administration Standards" and "Report on Addressing Mal-Administration Police Stations"
2. The recommendations in the report on addressing Mal-administration in Police Stations especially in terms of transparency, an efficient system of FIR registration  and follow up of investigations, establishment of state of the art Forensic Service Agencies along with training of investigation officers can remarkably improve the police services in the best interest of a common person of our society.
 3. Pakistan Air force is already in the process of establishing correction and rehabilitation centre for PAF prisoners. The report on failures in administration of prisons and recommendations for good administration is a valuable guidance for PAF in an endeavor to establish an effective correction and rehabilitation centre.
4. In the end, I must appreciate your untiring efforts in reshaping the prisons of Pakistan on the contemporary lines. May Allah grant you the courage, fortitude and wisdom to serve this great Nation to the best of your capabilities and in the highest traditions of Department of Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan.
Very respectfully,
Mr. Salman Faruqui, NI
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan

Posting/Transfer of the Government Servants within Pakistan 
Introductory Note (Criteria for Posting/Transfer within Pakistan)
(Letter from the Finance Secretary to the Secretary Establishment Division for Posting/Transfer of Director Finance)
(Letter from Mr. Nadeem Ahmad Bhatti, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Planning, Development and Reforms to Mr. Musaddiq Ahmad Khan, Joint Secretary(E), Establishment Division, Islamabad)
Criteria for Posting/Transfer within Pakistan





Posting/Transfer of Director(Finance)
(D.O. Letter from the Finance Secretary to the Secretary Establishment Division 
Ministry of Finance
Government of Pakistan
Finance Secretary
D.O. No.----------Islamabad, date-------------------
My dear,
Mr.---------------has completed the tenure of  three years of posting as Director (Finance) Finance Division  on ------date--------. His transfer from this post is, therefore, due.
2. In order to propose a suitable alternate for the post of Director (Finance), Finance Division, the Minister of State for Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs has approved, in order of priority, the following panel of names
A copy each of their bio-data is enclosed.
3. You are requested to take necessary action for the transfer of Mr.----------------- and appointment of one of the above officers as Director( Finance), --------------------
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(--------name---------)
Mr.-------------------
Secretary,
Establishment Division, Islamabad
(D.O Letter from Mr. Nadeem Ahmed Bhatti, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Planning, Development and Reform to Mr. Musaddiq Ahmed Khan, Joint Secretary(E), Establishment Division, Islamabad)
Nadeem Ahmed Bhatti
Government of Pakistan
Joint Secretary
Planning Commission
Ministry of Planning, Development & Reform
No.1(73)Estab-III/PDR/15 Islamabad, the 28th July, 2018
Subject: Filling up of the Vacant Posts of Section Officers in the Ministry of Planning, Development & Reforms
Dear Mr.,
As you are aware, in the wake of reforms initiated in the Ministry of Planning, Development & Reform/Planning Commission, the workload of this Ministry has been diversified to a larger extent. 
This Ministry, inter alia, has been assigned the implementation task of Vision 202 5to lead the country's growth strategy. 
After restructuring of Planning Commission in 2013, the posts of Members (MP- 1Scale) have also been increased from 0 9to 12. 
2. In order to achieve time bound tasks, this Ministry is in dire need of the required administrative support. 
At present, out of 14 sanctioned posts of Section Officers, 07 are lying vacant. 
Presently the acute shortage is being managed through internal arrangements by assigning the duties of Section Officers to Research Officers and Assistant Chiefs of the Ministry. 
However, these temporary arrangements may not continue for long. 
3. In view of the above, I shall be grateful if 07 Section Officers may please be posted in this Ministry at the earliest. 
Yours sincerely,
(Nadeem Ahmed Bhatti)
Mr. Musaddiq Ahmed Khan
Joint Secretary (E) Establishment Division, Islamabad
CC:
(i) SPS to Secretary, M/o PD &R
(ii) PS to SJS (Establishment), M/o PD&R







Prisons-Wafaqi Mohtasib's Report on Prisoners with Special Reference to Children and Women Prisoners
Introductory Note (Prisons Reforms)
(Letter from Mr. Ahmad Farooq, Secretary to the President to the Chief Secretary, Government of Punjab, Lahore)
(Letter from Mr. M Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman to Honorable Justice, Mr. Anwar Zaheer Jamali, Chief Justice of Pakistan, Supreme Court of Pakistan, Islamabad)
(Letter from Mr. Justice Mazhar Alam Khan Miankhel, Honourable Chief Justice, Khyber Pakhtun Khaw to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman, Islamabad)
(Letter from Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah Khan NI(M), Chief of Navel Staff to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui Federal Ombudsman, Islamabad)
Prison Reforms












(Free of cost Educational facilities for Prisoners)





(Administrative Issues)(Jails)







(Segregation of Criminals)


(Supervision/Monitoring)



(Education/Skill Development)





Conditions of Prisons with Special Reference to the Children and Women Prisoners (D.O. Letter from Mr. Ahmad Farooq, Secretary to the  President to the Chief Secretary, Government of Punjab Lahore)
Secretary to the President
President's Secretariat Aiwan-e-Sadr, Islamabad
D.O. No: 1(160)DIF(FA)/2015 3 0July, 2015
Subject: Wafaqi Mohtasib's Report on Prisoners with Special Reference to Children and Women Prisoners
Dear Chief Secretary,
An advisory Committee was constituted by the Wafaqi Mohtasib in pursuance of the order of Supreme Court of Pakistan and Article 1 8of the President's Order No. 1of 198 3to evaluate the Conditions of Prisons with Special Reference to the Children and Women Prisoners.
2. The members of the Committee visited the Adiala Jail and submitted a report (copy enclosed) wherein recommendations were given to improve the overall conditions of the Adiala Jail especially for the Women and Juvenile offenders.
3. It has been desired that taking guidance from the enclosed report necessary steps may please be taken to improve the conditions of the Jails under your administrative control and accordingly a report be furnished to this Secretariat.
With warm regards,
Sincerely yours,
(Ahmad Farooq)
Chief Secretary
Government of Punjab,Lahore
Copy to:
1. Wafaqi Mohtasib (Ombudsman) Secretariat, Islamabad.
2. The Home Secretary, Punjab, Lahore
3. Inspector General (Prisons), Punjab, Lahore











(Letter from Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman to Honorable Justice, Mr. Anwar Zaheer Jamali, Chief Justice of Pakistan, Supreme Court of Pakistan, Islamabad)
M. Salman Faruqui(NI)
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
President Asian Ombudsman Association
President Asian Region, International Ombudsman Institute
No.1(10)HWM/2016 May 17, 2016
Honorable Mr. Chief justice, 
It was providential that Your Honour, as the Chief Justice of this not infrequently beleaguered country, took notice of the inhuman plight of the thousands of prison inmates in Pakistan and directed the Office of the Wafaqi Mohtasib (Federal Ombudsman) of Pakistan to form standing committee/s and inspection team/s to examine the systemic failures in the administrations of the criminal justice system and the prisons in particular and make recommendations to rectify such failures and set good administration standards that, if breached, would be deemed to be maladministration. 
I have used the word providential because I believe that had the Honourable Supreme Court not taken suo moto notice of the hapless poor, the wheels of much needed reforms would not have moved and the undeserved miseries inflicted on these thousands of men, women and children would have continued unchecked. 
By directing us to do that, the Honourable Supreme Court of Pakistan has earned the gratitude of the people and has also set a healthy precedence of drawing the attention of the Executive to systemic failures that heap undue sufferings and inflict miseries on the citizens.
Sir, drawing inspiration from your direction, this Office and members of the National Committee on Prisons have spared no effort to visit, inspect, study and analyse the situation as it exists in various prisons of the country. 
Headed by the distinguished Senator(R), Mr. S.M. Zafar, former President of Human Rights Society of Pakistan and Minister for Law and Justice, the Committee included eminent educationists, serving and retired civil servants and prominent civil society activists. 
What unfolded before them is too horrifying to describe. 
To put it mildly, while there is noticeable improvement, thanks due to serious efforts by the Inspectors General of Prisons and some of their colleagues in some of the prisons, the conditions continue to be grossly inhuman. 
But instead of dampening, it, in fact only ignited the zeal and the passion of the members to go ahead with the mission that they had accepted to carry forward. 
They took exceptional pain and stress to reach to the bottom of the malaise, identify the systemic failures and bring forward a set of recommendations that are pragmatic and practicable. 
In dong so, they have earned the admiration of us all.
3. It is, thus, with a sense of satisfaction and indeed pride in the extraordinary efforts of the Committee that I take this opportunity to present to you its comprehensive report. 
I do so in the belief that their efforts will lead to the setting up of systems and principles that will ensure that the prison inmates in Pakistan are treated humanely and justly, specially the women and children.
Sincerely,
(M. Salman Faruqui)
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anwar Zaheer Jamali
Chief Justice of Pakistan 
Supreme Court of Pakistan, Islamabad





(Letter from Mr. Justice Mazhar Alam Khan Miankhel, Honourable Chief Justice, Khyber Pakhtun Khaw to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman, Islamabad)
Chief Justice Peshawar High Court
No.----------------------------				 
Peshawar, the 3rd May, 2016
Dear Mr. M. Salman Faruqui,
Assalam-o-Alaikum,
I am indeed thankful for taking swift and keen interest in the affairs of Dera Ismail Khan, Jail by deputing a team of your Secretariat, to visit, inspect and submit their report and for designating a focal person for Dera Ismail Khan, Jail Project.
I, hope Wafaqi Mohtasib Secretariat, will vigorously pursue the reports submitted by the visiting team and the end result will be shared with this office.
With regards,
Faithfully Yours
(Mr. Justice Mazhar Alam Khan Miankhel)
Chief Justice,
Peshawar High Court, Peshawar
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui
Wafaqi Mohtasib
Wafaqi Mohtasib Secretariat, Islamabad


(Letter from Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah Khan NI(M), Chief of Naval Staff to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman, Islamabad)
Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah Khan NI(M), 
Chief of Naval Staff
Naval headquarters
NL/7402/2015 4, March 2016
Mr. M Salman Faruqui, NI
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan Islamabad
Honourable Federal Ombudsman
Assalam-o-Alaikum
I am pleased to acknowledge the receipt of Ombudsman's Report of the National Committee on Prisons constituted by the Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan in pursuance of the orders of the Honourable Supreme Court of Pakistan. 
2. The Committee has carried out invaluable work to identify the perennial problems existing in our prison system. The report charts a clear way that promises to usher the much needed reform, particularly for the good of incarcerated women and juveniles. 
3. The prisons can play an important role in reformation of the inmates to equip them with elementary/better education and skills during their internment or sentence and prepare them to become useful citizens upon returning to the society. This area has been paid little attention in the past. 
4. The Committee's report with a set of recommendations to redress this situation is an important step that deserves due recognition and necessary follow up. 
With best wishes and warm regards.
Yours sincerely,
(Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah Khan)

Promotion of Government Sevants
(List of Contents)
Appointment as Section Officer on Promotion  (D.O. Letter from Mr. Ijlal Haider Zaidi Establishment Secretary to Mr. Muhammad Bashir Section Officer)
Promotion as Section Officer








Appointment as Section Officer on Promotion (D.O.Letter from Mr. Ijlal Haider Zaidi Establishment Secretary to Mr. Muhammad Bashir Section Officer, Ministry of Population Welfare)
Mr. Ijlal Haider Zaidi
Cabinet Secretariat
Secretary							Establishment Division
Tel.----------------
No.---------------Islamabad, April, 1982
Subject: Section Officers' Promotion Examination, 1981
Dear Mr.Bashir,
I am glad to inform you that on completion of your training in the Secretariat Training Institute, you have been approved for appointment as Section Officer.
2. Getting promotion during one's career is a matter of satisfaction as well as of introspection. 
While one is grateful that his dedicated service has received due recognition, one also becomes conscious that he has to as well justify the promotion.
3. I need not emphasize the important role a Section Officer plays in the disposal of Federal Secretariat work. 
Keeping this aspect in view, I hope, you will do your best to perform your duties judiciously and efficiently within the ambit of conduct of work applicable to Government servants. 
I must particularly emphasize the aspect of discipline which is such an important element in public administration.
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
(Ijlal Haider Zaidi)
Mr. Muhammad Bashir
Section Officer
Ministry of Population Welfare,Islamabad








Public Procurement
Introductory Note (Grievances Redress Committee)
(Redress of Grievances by the Procuring Agency)
(D.O. Letter from Ms. Nazrat Bashir Managing Director, Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA), Cabinet Division, to all the Federal Secretaries/ Additional Secretaries Incharge)		
(Administrative Review on the Findings of the Grievances Redressal Committee by the Principal Accounting Officer)
(Redress of Grievanes and the Principal Accounting Officers)
(Publication of Tenders on PPRA Website)		
(Access and Transparency)
(Tender Notice on PPRA Website and its Proof for Audit Record)
(Publication of Tenders on PPRA Website)
(Registration of Firms and Charging of Registration/Process Fees etc)
(Registration of Firms and Charging of Registration/Process Fees etc)
(Monitoring the application of Pubic Procurement Rules, 2004)
(Violations of Public Procurement Rules, 2004)
(Procurement Planning)  
(Procurement Plan and its uploading on the PPRA)
Evaluation Reports-Acceptance or Rejection of Bids
(Announcement of Evaluation Reports)
Implementation of Public Procurement Rules 2004 (Precise and Unambiguous bidding documents)
(D.O.Letter from Miss. Nazrat Bashir, Director General Public procurement Regulatory  Authority (PPRA) to all the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge, Ministry/Division, Islamabad)
Grievances Redress Committee  







(Redress of Grievances by the Procuring Agency)
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
(Cabinet Division)
Hafeez ur Rehman
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
Subject: Redress of Griveances by the Procuring Agency
My dear 
Rule 4 8(1) of the Public Procurement Rules, 200 4unambiguously provides that the procuring agency shall constitute a committee comprising odd number of persons, with proper powers and authorizations to address the complaints of bidders that may occur prior to entry into force of the procurement contract. 
The redress process and further recourse is laid down in Rule 4 8(2), (3), (4) & (5). 
2. While it has been noted with satisfaction that procuring agencies are largely compliant to Public Procurement Rules 2004, in a number of cases however, grievance redress committees have not been constituted to grant right to the bidders to represent against the decision of procuring agency, as a legal obligation. 
3. All procuring agencies / units under the administrative control of your ministry may be advised to constitute independent Grievance Redress Committees in accordance with the provisions of Public Procurement Rule, 2004. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Hafeez ur Rehman)
All Federal Secretaries
No. F.3(5)/DD-II/PPRA/2009 Islamabad, the 23rd December, 2009
(D.O.Letter from Ms. Nazrat Bashir Managing Director, Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA), Cabinet Division to All the Federal Secretaries/ Additional Secretaries Incharge)
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cabinet Division)
Nazrat Bashir
Managing Director
D.O.No. 4-2/M&I/2014 Islamabad,  the 29th October, 2014
Subject: Redressal of Grievances by the Procuring Agency
Dear Secretary, 
The Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) has been mandated to ensure transparency, economy, efficiency and accountability of the public sector procuring agencies / organizations through monitoring and implementation of Public Procurement Rules, 2004. 
2. Rule 48(1) of the Public Procurement Rules, 200 4provides that the procuring agency shall constitute a committee comprising odd number of persons, with proper powers and authorizations to address the complaints of bidders that may occur prior to entry into force of the procurement contract. The redressal process and further recourse is laid down in Rule 48(2), (3), (4) & (5). This Authority had already issued instructions in this regard vide D.O. letter No. 3(5)/DD-II/PPRA/2009, dated 23-12-2009. 
3. In some cases, grievances redressal committees have not been constituted to grant right to the bidders to represent against the decision of the procuring agency, as a legal obligation. 
Resultantly, PPRA is in receipt of numerous complaints expressing grievances against various procuring agencies.
4 In view of the above, kindly ensure compliance of Rule 48(1) of the Public Procurement Rules, 200 4and provide the details of the Committee constituted to this Authority on the enclosed proforma for uploading the same on its website. 
Yours sincerely,
(Nazrat Bashir)
Encl: as above 
All Federal Secretaries











Administrative Review on the Findings of the Grievances Redress Committee by the Principal Accounting Officer)  








(Grievanes Redressal and the Principal Accounting Officers)
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cabinet Division)
Hafeez ur Rehman
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
No.F.3(5)/DD-II/PPRA/2009 Islamabad, February 10, 2010
Subject: Redress of Grievances Redressal And Principal Accounting Officers
My dear Secretary, 
Pivotal position of Principal Accounting Officer in our system of governance needs no underscoring nor can the importance of transparency in procurement process be minimized. 
Part and parcel of transparency is the mechanism to redress grievance. 
2. PPRA, has sufficiently brought out the rule position of grievance handling along with the requirement to form Grievance Redressal Committees. 
This request did not meet a resounding response; the result can be viewed at www.ppra.org.pk where Committees stand uploaded for the benefit of aggrieved bidders and the public to meet the tenets of transparency. 
3. To strengthen the mechanism as provided under Rule 4 8of Public Procurement Rules 2004, the Principal Accounting Officer as a next logical step should conduct an administrative review on the findings of complaint and take action in accordance with conduct rules in the event of unfair and non-transparent procurement process. 
The decision of administrative review shall be communicated to PPRA, the aggrieved bidder and the procuring entity prior to the award of contract without retarding the procurement process. 
4. The intent is to complete the first tier Grievance Redressal mechanism. 
The second tier is under active deliberation. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Hafeez ur Rehman)
All Federal Secretaries
Publication of Tenders on PPRA Website 




(Access and Transparency)
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
(Cabinet Division)
Hafeez ur Rehman
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
No.F.3(4)/DD-II/PPRA/2010 Islamabad, the 3rd March 2010
Subject: Access and Transparency
My dear Secretary, 
Rule-12(2) of Public Procurement Rules, 200 4provides that all procurement opportunities over two million rupees should be advertised on the Authority's website  as well as in other print media or newspapers with wide circulation. 
2. Kindly direct all concerned that Tenders appearing in the press should carry a compulsory note that "tender is also available at PPRA Website" (www.ppra.org.pk) to strengthen access and transparency. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Hafeez ur Rehman)
All Federal Secretaries
(Tender Notice on PPRA Website and its Proof for Audit and Record)
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cabinet Division)
Hafeez ur Rehman
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
No.F.7(35)/DD-I/PPRA/2010 Islamabad, the 22nd April, 2010
Subject: Tender Notice on PPRA Website and its Proof for Audit and Record
Dear,
Rule 12(4) of Public Procurement Rules, 200 4stipulates that:
"A procuring agency utilizing electronic media shall ensure that the information posted on the website is complete for the purposes for which it has been posted and such information shall remain available on that website until the closing date for submission of bids". 
2. Beyond the closing date, web based advertisement / tender notice shall remain available on PPRA website for a period of forty (40) days. 
3. It would be prudent to download /print the advertisement for the purposes of record and audit. 
In case of need, beyond the period of 40 days, when the advertisement / tender notice stands withdrawn from our website, we shall be obliged to provide the same on a request in writing. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Hafeez ur Rehman)
All Federal Secretaries

(Publication of Tenders on PPRA Website)
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cabinet Division)
Nazrat Bashir
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
No.F.2(21)/DD(M&Imp)PPRA/Rules Imp./09	Islamabad, the 6th August 2010
Subject: Publication of Tenders on PPRA Website
Dear Secretary, 
In terms of Rule 12 of Public Procurement Rules, 2004, the public sector procuring agencies are required to advertise their tender notices for procurements of goods, services and works above rupees one hundred thousand on PPRA website (www.ppra.org.pk). 
Tenders received from procuring agencies through mail, email, fax or clippings from newspapers are uploaded on PPRA website on daily basis. 
2. PPRA has provided the facility to public sector procuring agencies for directly uploading their tenders on the website after getting an ID and password from PPRA to fulfill their mandatory requirement. 
In most of the cases, the tenders are only published in print media ignoring advertisement on PPRA website in violation of Rule 1 2of Public Procurement Rules, 2004. 
3. Kindly direct the functionaries concerned to meet the stipulated mandatory requirement by utilizing the facility of PPRA website by obtaining ID/ password provided by PPRA. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Nazrat Bashir)
All Federal Secretaries	
Registration of Firms and Charging of Registration/Process Fees etc.




























(Registration of Firms and Charging of  Registration/Process Fees etc)
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cabinet Division)
Hafeez ur Rehman
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
No.F.1(28)DD-1/PPRA/11 Islamabad, the 21st April 2011
Subject: Registration of Firms and Charging of Registration/Process Fees etc.
My dear Secretary, 
It has been observed that in many cases/procuring agencies prefer registration of firms by charging exorbitant registration feel processing fee and few other charges instead of adhering to Rules 1 5& 1 6of Public Procurement Rules, 2004. 
Such practices are in conflict with the basic objective of holding healthy competition among the suppliers/contractors or service providers. 
Public Procurement Rules, 200 4allow procuring agencies to charge price of pre qualification/bidding documents only to cover costs of printing. 
2. All the organizations/ autonomous bodies under the administrative control of your Ministry may be advised to refrain from such practices and follow Public Procurement Rules, 200 4in letter and spirit. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Hafeez ur Rehman)
All Federal Secretaries
Monitoring the application ofPublic Procurement Rules, 2004




(Violations of Public Procurement Rules, 2004)
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cabinet Division)
Nazrat Bashir
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
No.F.2(21)DD(M&Imp)/PPRA/Imp-Rules/09	      Islamabad, the 21st December 2012
Subject: Violations of Public Procurement Rules, 2004
Dear Auditor General of Pakistan
The Public Procurement Regulatory Authority was established vide PPRA Ordinance, 2002. 
The functions of the Authority, inter-alia, include to monitor applications of laws, rules, regulations, policies, procedures in respect of, or relating to procurement. 
Keeping in view the functions assigned to the Authority, the Authority monitors the applications of Public procurement Rules, 200 4through the tender notices uploaded by the procuring agencies on the PPRA website or published in the press. 
The violations so observed are intimated to the procuring agencies for corrective actions. 
2. In terms of Article 17 0of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Audit of the accounts of the Federal and of the Provincial Governments and the accounts of any authority or body established by, or under the control of, the Federal or a Provincial Government are conducted by the Auditor General of Pakistan. It is proposed that the Auditors while conducting the audit may also take into account the violations of Public Procurement Rules, 2004. 
3. It would be appreciated if the auditors are informed in this respect. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Nazrat Bashir)
Mr. Muhammad Akhtar Buland Rana, Auditor General of Pakistan, Consitution Avenue, Sector G-5/2, Islamabad

Procurement Planning






(Procurement Plan and its uploading on the PPRA
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cabinet Division)
Nazrat Bashir
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
No.F.2-1/M&I/2014 Islamabad, the 19th May 2014
Subject: Procurement Plan and its Uploading on the PPRA
Dear Secretary, 
Preparation of Annual Procurement Plan by every procuring agency of the Federal Government and its uploading on the PPRA website and the procuring agency's own website (if any) is mandatory, in terms of Rule  8&  9of the Public Procurement Rules 2004. 
Failure to do so straightaway leads to mis-procurement which cannot be condoned either under the PPRA Ordinance, 200 2or any other law of the land. 
2. Inspite of the above clear cut mandatory requirements of the Rules, most of the procurement agencies neither prepare their Annual Procurement Plans nor upload them on the PPRA website before start of actual procurement. 
Please note that any procurement without a publicized procurement plan on the PPRA website is a mis- procurement, under the Rules. 
3. Since the new financial year is going to start w.e.f. 01-07-2014, all procuring agencies are requested to prepare and upload their respective plans on the PPRA's website on the enclosed proforma before initiating the actual procurements. 
From July 2014, the procurement advertisements of the defaulting organizations will be marked by the Authority as violation of the Rules 8,  9of the Public Procurement Rules, 200 4and conveyed to the respective procuring agencies. 
Yours sincerely,
(Nazrat Bashir)
Encl: as above
All Federal Secretaries
Announcement of Evaluation Reports




(Announcement of Evaluation Reports)
Government of Pakistan
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cabinet Division)
Nazrat Bashir
Managing Director
Tel.-------------------
No.F.1(3)/AD-II/PPRA/12 Islamabad, the 6th August, 2012
Subject: Announcement of Evaluation Reports
Dear Secretary,
The Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) has been mandated to ensure transparency, economy, efficiency and accountability of the public sector procuring agencies / organizations through monitoring and implementation of Public Procurement Rules, 2004. 
It is encouraging to note that since promulgation of these rules the rate of violations of these rules has decreased substantially. 
However, procuring agencies do not strictly follow some of these rules in letter and spirit. 
2. In terms of Rule 35, the procuring agencies shall announce the results of bid evaluation in the form of a report giving justification for acceptance or rejection of bids at least ten days prior to the award of procurement contract. Specimen of Bid Evaluation Report is enclosed. 
3. In view of above, it would be appreciated if the organization(s) under the administrative control of your Ministry / Division are directed to ensure compliance of Rule 3 5of the Public Procurement Rules, 2004 referred to in the preceding paragraph. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Nazrat Bashir)
Encl: as above
All Federal Secretaries
Evaluation Report
(As per Rule 3 5of Public Procurement Rules, 2004)
1. Name of  Procuring Agency----------------------------------------------------------
2. Method of  Procurement--------------------------------------------------------------
3. Title of  Procurement------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Tender Inquiry No.--------------------------------------------------------------------
5. PPRA Ref. No. (TSE)----------------------------------------------------------------
6. Date and Time of Bid Closing-------------------------------------------------------
7. Date and Time of Bid Opening-------------------------------------------------------
8. No. of  Bids Received-----------------------------------------------------------------
9. Criteria for Bid Evaluation----------------------------------------------------------
10. Details of Bid(s) Evaluation--------------------------------------------------------
Marks

Technical
(if applicable)
Financial
(if applicable)
Evaluated Cost
Rule/Regulations/ SBD /Policy/ Basis for Rejection/ Acceptance as per Rule 3 5of PP Rules, 2004
(Add Column if Required)
a Lowest Evaluated Bidder-------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any other additional/supporting information, the procuring agency may like to share.
Signature --------------------------------
Official Stamp-------------------------
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD)
(Letter from Miss. Nazrat Bashir, Director General Public procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) to all the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge, Ministry/Division, Islamabad)
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
Cabinet Division Government of Pakistan
Nazrat Bashir
Managing Director
No. 2-3/M&I/2014 Islamabad, the 18th March, 2014
Subject: Implementation of Rule 23(1) of Public Procurement Rules, 2004
Dear Secretary, 
The Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) has been mandated to ensure transparency, economy  efficiency and accountability of the public sector procuring agencies/organizations through monitoring and implementation of Public Procurement Rules, 2004. 
It is encouraging to note that since promulgation of these rules, the rate of violations of these rules has decreased substantially. 
However, procuring agencies do not strictly follow some of these rues in letter and spirit. 
2. In terms of Rule 23(1) of Public Procurement Rules, 2004, it is mandatory for the procuring agencies to formulate precise and unambiguous bidding documents that shall be made available to the bidders immediately after the publication of the invitation to bid. 
It has been observed that in certain cases, procuring agencies do not formulate such bidding documents which tantamount to mis-procurement under Rule 50 of the Rules ibid. 
Rule 23(1) of Public Procurement Rules, 200 4is reproduced as below:
Procuring agencies shall formulate precise and unambiguous bidding documents that shall be made available to the bidders immediately after the publication of the invitation to bid.
 3. In view of above, it would be appreciated, if the organization(s) under the administrative control of your Ministry / Division are directed to ensure compliance of Rule 23(1) of the Public Procurement Rules, 200 4referred to the preceding paragraph. 
With best regard,
Yours sincerely,
(Nazrat Bashir)
All the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge, Ministries/Divisions

Public Procurement System in the Government  Recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman's Committee
(Letter dated 17th November, 201 6from  Senator (Retd) Dr. S.M. Zafar former Minister for Law and Justice)
(Letter dated 25th November,201 6from Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah NI(M) Chief of the Naval Staff)
(Letter dated 30th November,2016, from Mr. Muhammad Masood Khan, President of Azad Jammu and Kashmir)
(Letter dated 3rd December ,201 6from Lt.Gen. Rizwan Akhtar (M) Director General, Inter Services Intelligence)
(Letter dated 13th December, 201 6from Mr. Ashraf M. Wathra, Governor, State Bank of Pakistan, Karachi)
Recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman Committee on "Government Procurement System"
(Public Procurement Rules)
















(Standard Bidding Documents)


(Consolidated Procurement)


(PPRA Board of Members)




(Exemptions)



(Time Lines for Projects)



(Capacity Building)








(E-Procurement)


(Letter from  Senator (R) Dr. S.M. Zafar  former Minister for Law and Justice)
Thursday, 17, November 2016
Dear Salman Faruqui,
Reference your letter of 31st October, 201 6and the report on Government procurement system. The reason for answering with some delay is the time consumed for going through the entire report.
During my practice I had to defend some of the cases of procurement by the Government.
Through the study thereof, the observations by the judges during the hearing and in the final judgment, I was hoping that the procedure and the system of Government procurements will be properly re-framed. 
The report, therefore, was a good news to me that some serious efforts have been made in this regard which may improve the task for the Standing Committee and the Senate on this subject. 
However, what has irritated me in the past, through the experience inside and outside the Government, is that the reports are received as welcome by the governments and are ignored similarly by the swift hands sending them to incompetent bureaucratic committees. 
So, I may suggest that after sending a report like this one and others, the Ombudsman office under your guidance may ensure that the recommendations have been acted upon and implemented. 
Otherwise your and our efforts will only add to dustbin and our frustration. 
There must be a system by which we can inquire from the government, after reasonable time, the result of receiving the report. 
Yours sincerely,
(Senator Dr. S.M. Zafar)

Mr. Salman Foruqui, Federal Ombudsman, Islamabad
(Letter from Chief of the Naval Staff of Pakistan)
Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah NI(M) Chief of the Naval Staff) Naval Headquarters Islamabad
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, NI Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan 36-Constitution Avenue, Islamabad.
D.O. 6009/2/DP(N)/Coord	2 5November, 2016
Dear Salman Faruqui Sahib,
It is with deep gratitude that I received your letter of 13th October 201 6along with a copy of 'Federal Ombudsman Report on Government Procurement System to Address Maladministration and Ensure Transparency'. 
In recognition of economic challenges facing our country, implementation of the committee's recommendations across the public domain would bring in cost efficiencies, while maximizing the operational as well as administrative utility of our scarce budget. 
The contents of the report are being disseminated within Pakistan Navy for guidance and education of concerned staff. 
2. Pakistan Navy has always endeavoured to extract best value for the limited budget allocated by MoD within the bounds of PPRA and procurement rules promulgated by MoDP/DGDP. 
A number of new initiatives have been taken to streamline the procurement process in PN. 
These include prioritization of naval staff requirements, transparent bidding process and institution of Standing Appeals Committee to redress legitimate grievances of suppliers. 
Pakistan Navy has also setup procurement Management System for electronic processing of contractual activities. 
3. I thank you and extend our full support towards your noble pursuits.
With profound regards
Yours sincerely,
(------signature-----)
(Letter from the President of Azad Jammu and Kashmir)
Azad Jammu and Kashmir President House
President					         
President Block, Kashmir House
F-5/2, Islamabad
No. PS/640/2016	30th November, 2016
My Dear Mohtram Faruqui Sahib,
Assalam-o-Alaikum,
I would like to extend my gratitude to you for sharing with us the "Federal, Ombudsman report on Government procurement system to address maladministration and ensure transparency''
The report shows indelible mark of your leadership. Transparency is a key principle for good governance and national development. 
It increases predictability and enhances confidence in institutions on the basis of adequate legislation and the rule of law. 
If we can address systemic weaknesses through financial transparency and fairness in procurement of goods and services, heavy chunks of public resources would be saved and spent on development projects. 
Rather than dealing with routine matters, the report effectively deals with the causes of malpractices in government departments in procurement of goods and services.
I  hope the Government of Pakistan would take full advantage of the report's valuale recommendations.
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Mohammad Masood Khan)
Mr. Muhammad Salman Faruqui
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
President Asian Ombudsman Association
President Asian Region,International Ombudsman Institute, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(Letter from Director General I.S.I)
Lieutenant General
Rizwan Akhtar
Director General,ISI
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, NI
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
36.Constitution Avenue Islamabad
No. PF/21/DO 3rd December 201 6
Respected Federal Ombudsman, 
Assalam-o-Alaikum,
I am thankful to you for sharing "Report on Government Procurement System to Address Maladministration and Ensure Transparency". 
Your initiative on the subject and the recommendations are considered quite apt for improving the prevailing system of procurement and contracts, albeit  depending on their implementation by the responsible people.
This office supports your efforts for necessary legislation/orders for implementation at government as well as individual institution level. 
With best Wishes & regards*
Your sincerely*
(-------Signature--------)
Hand written
(Letter from Governor, State Bank of Pakistan)
State Bank of Pakistan Karachi
Ashraf M. Wathra
Governor
Ref. 8252 Decrmber 13, 2016
Federal Ombudsman's Report on Government Procurement System to Address Maladministration and Ensure Transparency
Dear Mr. M. Salman Faruqui,
I personally feel honored and grateful to you, for timely sharing with us, this excellent analysis on public procurement. 
The balanced and in-depth analysis on the whole range of procurement issues alongwith recommendations speaks volumes about the level of efforts invested by the team members. 
As a leading public sector institution, SBP is strictly complying with Public Procurement Rules issued by the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority; however, I am confident that the quality content of this report would be of great help to further strengthen the procurement policy and procedures of our organization. It will also help the legislature and policy makers in making the required changes that will boister and enhance "value for money" procurements, while maintaining transparency in the procurement process. 
I, once again extend my appreciation to your good self for this public interest initiative and to all the team members for sharing their insights through this report. 
Warmest personal regards, 
Yours Sincerely,
(Ashraf M. Wathra)
Governor
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
36-Constitution Avenue, Islamabad
Annual Procurement Plan for the Financial year-----------------
(Under Rule  8 and  9 of the Public Procurement Rules 2014)
Name of   the Procuring   Agency-----------------------------------
Tentative date of Completion
Tentative date of Award of Contract
Tentative date of Procurement (Notice Publication)
The Annual Procurement Plan may be prepred on the assumption that total allocated budget will be released.
Procurement method means Open Competitive Bidding/Petty Purchaes/Qutations/Direct Contracting/Negotiated Tendering.
PPRA Instructions
Name of Bidder
Estimated Cost
Name of Procurement

Reminder (Communication)
(List of Contents)


Introductory  Note
(System of Reminders)
Reminder (D.O. Letter)(Material for Budget Speech)
Reminder (D.O. Letter)(Cultural Exchanges Programme)
Reminder (D.O. Letter)(Cultural Exchanges Programme)
Reminder (D.O. Letter)(Request for early dispatch of views/suggestions)
Reminder (D.O. Letter)(Request to inform about the action taken in a certain matter)
(Request for sending views/suggestions as early as possible)






(Reminder---Request for forwarding Material for Budget Speech)
Name----------------Ministry of Finance--Designation-----Finance Division
Tel.-------------Government of Pakistan
No.-------------Islamabad, -------date------
Dear Mr.---------------------,
Kindly refer to my D.O. letter No.----------------- dated--------------- regarding Material for the next budget speech of the Finance Minister. It was requested in this letter that the relevant material may be sent to this Division by------------------.
2. Since the material has not been received so far from your Division, you are requested to forward the requisite material as early as possible.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(----name------)
---designation----
Mr.--------------------
-------designation
-------Division,
Islamabad.
(Reminder----Cultural Exchanges Programme with ---name of country----
Name ------------Ministry of ----------designation-----Division
Tel.--------------Government of Pakistan
No.-----------Islamabad, date--------------------
Dear Mr.---------------------

I would like to draw your attention to this division, O.M. No.-------------------- dated--------------- and the -------------------- subsequent reminders dated--------------- and ------------------ regarding cultural exchanges programme with ---name of country------.
2. You are requested to kindly attend to this case and the required information may kindly be forwarded at an early date.
Yours sincerely,

(----name------)
---designation----
Mr.--------------------
Joint Secretary
-------division, Islamabad.
(Reminder----Request for Expediting views/suggestions)
Name -------------Ministry of ----------------designation-----------------Division
Tel.--------------------Government of Pakistan
No.----------------Islamabad, date--------------------
My dear---------------------,
Kindly refer to the correspondence resting with this division's D.O. letter of even number dated-------------------.
2.	I shall be grateful if you may kindly look into the matter and have the views/ suggestions expedited.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(----name------)
---designation----
Mr.--------------------
-------designation
-------division
Islamabad
Reminder-D.O.Letter (Request to inform about the information taken in a certain matter)
Name --------------Ministry of ---------designation-----------------Division
Tel.----------------------					        Government of Pakistan
No.----------------------					Islamabad, date--------------------
My dear---------------------,
Kindly refer to this Division's U.O. No.-------------------- dated-------------- and the discussion the undersigned had with you on --------------- on the subject noted above. This Division may please be informed of the action taken for securing ----------------.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(----name------)
---designation----
Mr.---------------------------,
-------designation---------,
-------Division, Islamabad.
(Reminder-Request for sending views/suggestions as early as possible)
Name -----------------Ministry of --------------designation------------------Division
Tel.-----------Government of Pakistan
No.-------------Islamabad, date--------------------
Dear Mr.---------------------,
Kindly refer to the D.O. letter of even number dated--------------------- regarding-----------------.
2. I shall be grateful if you may look into the matter and let us have the benefit of your views/ suggestions as early as possible.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(----name------)
---designation----
Mr.--------------------
-------designation
-------division, Islamabad.

Rules of Business, 1973---Violation of the Prescribed Procedure
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note
(Rules of Business, 1973)
(Letter from the Establishment Secretary to the Secretary of the Ministry Concerend)
(Rules of Business, 1973)



















































(Executive Authority of the Federation) 
(Extent of Executive Authority of Federation)
(Exercise of Executive Authority of Federation)
(Conduct of Business of Federal Government)
(Rules of Business 1973)
(General)
(Interpretation of the Rules of Business 1973):
(Consultation Among Divisions)

Violation of the Rules of Business 1973 (Letter from the Secretary Establishment Division to the Secretary, Ministry of ---------------) 
Establishment Division
Government of Pakistan
Establishment Secretary
Tel.-------------------------
No.-----------------Islamabad, date----------------------
My dear------------------,
I would like to bring to your notice an infraction of the Rules of Business committed by the Ministry of -------------------while processing the case of re-employment, after the age of superannuation of Mr.---------------------and his appointment as Chairman of the -----------------------. Somehow your Ministry chose to obtain the orders of the Prime Minister on a summary submitted directly to the Prime Minister's Secretariat.
2. Kindly note that the above procedure contravened the Rules of Business which require such cases to be processed by the Establishment Division.
3. You will kindly appreciate that it is imperative for all Ministries and Divisions to strictly observe the procedures prescribed in the Rules of Business.

4. I have brought the above infraction to the notice of the Prime Minister and have also taken the opportunity of reminding all other Ministries and divisions of the necessity to adhere to this requirement, I hope that it would not be repeated in future.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(------name------)
Mr.-------------------------
Secretary
Ministry of --------------------,Islamabad
Copy forwarded for information to Mr.-------------------, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister
State Bank of Pakistan
(References to the Prime Minister and the President)
(Cabinet Procedure)
(Legislation)
(Relations with Majlis-e-Shoora-- Parliament)
(Relations with Provinces)
(Emergency Provisions)
(Miscellaneous Provisions) 
(Consultation with Establishment Division)
Proposal for Free and Speedy Resolution of Citizens, Complaints Against Mal- administration of Federal, Provincial and Local Governments (Letter from Mr. Ashraf M. Wathra, Governor, State Bank of Pakistan to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman)
State Bank of Pakistan
(Subsidiaries of the SBP)
(SBP-BSC Corporation)
٭	




























(National Institute of Banking and Finance (NIBAF)Islamabad)








( D.O.Letter from Mr. Ashraf M. Wathra, Governor, 
State Bank of Pakistan to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman)
State Bank of Pakistan
Karachi
Ashraf M. Wathra
Governor
No. CPD (RD-07)/1412-G-15 June, 2015
Subject: Proposal for Free and Speedy Resolutions of Citizens Complaints Against Maladministration of Federal, Provincial and Local Governments
My dear Mr. M. Salman Faruqui,
The purpose of this note is to thank you for your letter No. 1(10)/HWM/201 4dated May 26, 201 5regarding the subject matter.
2. It is indeed impressive to note that under your esteemed leadership, the office of Federal Ombudsman is remarkably contributing towards provision of speedy and inexpensive justice to common man of Pakistan.
I sincerely congratulate you and your team for tremendous achievements made over the years in complaint redressal. With your passion, commitment and leadership, I am confident that the institution of Wafaqi Mohtasib would continue to excel. It gives me immense pleasure to relate with your objective of providing speedy and fair justice to masses which principally is an essential pillar of Financial Consumer Protection, one of the top priority areas for State Bank of Pakistan (SBP).
An impartial and efficient external dispute resolution forum, in case of banking sector, is the office of Banking Mohtasib Pakistan (BMP).
We in SBP are working to enhance coordination and cooperation with the BMP to make it a preferred redressal choice of banking customers so that SBP could focus on supervision of conduct of the banks and strengthen its regulatory regime.
I would like to take this opportunity to call your attention to the following concerns that have emerged as a result of Federal Ombudsman Institutional Reform Act. 2013.


Banking Consumer is legally compelled to give a 45 day's notice to bank before filing a complaint with BMP which is antagonistic to the concept of speedy justice specially in banking industry where grievances require immediate action. 
Resultantly, SBP is coerced to run a parallel redressal forum which handled 643 4complaints in FY14-1 5as compared to 4506 complaints dealt at BMP.
There appears an overlap of jurisdiction between Wafaqi/Provincial Ombudsmen and BMP regarding banking disputes where the later have power to entertain complaints against both public as well as private banks. 
Thus, there is a need to formulate a working mechanism amongst the Ombudsmen to eradicate duplication of work.
I extend my full support and cooperation to further strengthen the institution of Wafaqi Mohtasib and achieve its objectives.



Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, N.I.
Wafaqi Mohtasib (Federal Ombudsman)
Wafaqi Mohtasib (Ombudsman)'s Secretariat, 
Constitutional Avenue, Islamabad



Training for Government Servants
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note
1. Importance of Training
2. The Art of Education and Training (In the Light of the Life of the Holy Prophet (P.B.U.H))
Inauguration of the Specialized Training Program (STP)(D.O.Letter from Syed Anwar-ul-Hasan Bukhari, Director General, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad to Mr. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman, Wafaqi Mohtasib Secretariat, Islamabad)
Warm Welcome and Elaborate Briefing to the Section Officers (Probationers))D.O.Letter of Thanks from Syed Anwar-ul-Hasan Bukhari Director General, Secretariat Training Institute to MS. Rahat Kaunain, Chairperson Competition Commission of Pakistan)
Specialized Training Programme for OMG (D.O.Letter from Syed Hasnain Mehdi, Director General, Secretariat Training Institutle, Islamabad to Mr. Tajammul Altaf, Ambassador (Retd).
Specialized Training Programme for OMG (Probationers) (D.O.Letter from Mr. Badr-ul-Arifeen, Director, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad to Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Joint Secretary (Retd), Islamabad.
Meeting with the Trainee Officers (D.O.Letter of thanks from the Director General, ---Name of the Training Academy/Institute---- to the Chairman,-----Name of the Institution---- Government of Pakistan)
Request for Arrangement of Training Course for------------ Group Probationers (D.O.Letter from Director----------- Service Academy to The Director, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad)
National Workshop on Health Services Management(Letter from Dr. Siraj-ul-Haq Mahmud, Senior Chief, Planning and Development Division to Mr. Moin Ahmad Siddiqui, Director (Ex-Officio Status-Joint Secretary)Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad)
Training Course for Section Officers(Probationers) (D.O.Letter from Mr. Abdullah, Director, Provincial Services Academy, Peshawar to Mr. Zia-ul-Hassan, Deputy Secretary, Establishment Division, Islamabad)
(D.O. Letter form Mr. Syed Zia-ul-Hasan, Deputy Secretary, Establishment Division, to Mr. Abdullah, Director, Provincial Services Academy, Peshawar)
1- Importance of Training





(Training)
(Importance of Training)
(Better Performance)
(Improved Quality)
(Less Supervision)
(High Morale)
(Personal Growth)
(Change Management)
(Technology Update)
(Effective Managemnent)





















The Art of Education and Training (In the Light of the Life of the Holy Prophet)
	









































































































































Inauguration of the Specialized Training Programme   (D.O.Letter from Syed Anwar-ul-Hasan Bukhari, Director General, Secretariat Training Institutes, Islamabad to Mr. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman, Wafaqi Mohtasib Secretariat, Islamabad)
Director General Government of Pakistan
Tel.---------- (Establishment Division)
Secretariat Training Institute
D.O.No. 2-1/2013 OMG 16th April, 2013
Subject: Inauguration of 35th Specialized Training Programme of OMG (Probationers) -40th CTP
Dear Mr.-------------------,
I feel pleasure to share with you that a batch of 52O MG Probationers, would be joining Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad, for Specialized Training Program (STP) on April 22, 2013, after completing their Common Training in the Civil Services Academy, Walton, Lahore. 
Primary focus of STP is to enhance professional knowledge and hone skills of the future Public Sector Managers in the areas of Service Laws, Rules, Procedures and Public Policies alongside grooming their personalities, so that they are able to perform their responsibilities in a befitting manner.
 2. The STP is tentatively planned to be inaugurated on April 24, 201 3in the morning.
It will, indeed, be a great honour for us if you could kindly grace the Inaugural Ceremony of STP as Chief Guest. 
Your presence as Chief Guest in the ceremony and advice to the young officers will boost up their morale and give them a sense of ownership.
3. For coordination and any other information Mr. Badr-ul-Arifeen, Director, STI (051- 9259023) would remain in contact with your office. 
4. Looking forward to welcome you at STI. 
Yours sincerely, 
(Syed Anwar-ul-Hasan Bokhari) 
Mr. M Salman Faruqui,
Federal Ombudsman
Wafaqi Mohtasib (Ombudsman)'s Secretariat, Islamabad.
Warm Welcome and Elaborate Briefing to the Section Officers (Probationers)
(Letter of thanks from Syed Anwar-ul-Hasan Bokhari, Director General,  Secretariat Training Institute to Mrs. Rahat Kaunain, Chairperson Competition Commission of Pakistan, Islamabad)
Syed Anwar-ul-Hasan Bokhari,
Director General Government of Pakistan
Tel.---------------(Establishment Division)
Secretariat Training Institute
D.O.No. 2-1/2013-OMG Islamabad, the 21st  May, 2013
Subject: Visit of the Section Officers (Probationers) To Competition Commission of Pakistan
Dear Chairperson,
On behalf of Secretariat Training Institute, I express my deepest gratitude and heartfelt thanks to you and members of your team for extending warm welcome, hospitality and arranging an elaborate briefing to the officers during their visit to the Competition Commission of Pakistan.
1am highly thankful for your personal efforts, time and interest in the matter.  
1believe that the brief interaction of Section Officers (Probationers) with the Commission and the aura of motivation emitted by your personality will go a long way in the professional grooming of the officers. 
Yours sincerely, 
(Syed Anwar-ul-Hasan Bokhari) 
Ms. Rahat Kaunain, 
Chairperson,
Competition Commission of Pakistan,Islamabad























Specialized Training Programme for OMG (D.O. Letter from Syed Hasnain Mehdi,  Director General, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad to Mr. Tajammul Altaf, Ambassador (Retd.)
Syed Hasnain Mehdi,
Director General Government of Pakistan
Tel.------------(Establishment Division)
Secretariat Training Institute
D.O.No. F.2-2/2018-OMG Islamabad, 25th April, 2018
Subject: 40th Specialized Training Programme for OMG
Dear Mr.--------------------,
A batch of CSS Officers (BS-17) belonging to Office Management Group along with Guest Participants of AJK Government is under-training at Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad for 40th Specialized Training Program (STP). 
Being pre-service specialized training, primary focus is on Rules and procedures. 
However, this Institution always looks forward to the esteemed senior civil servants and scholars as Guest Speakers to share their knowledge with young Officers; on allied disciplines in order to broaden their horizons. 
2. In this regard, I shall be very grateful if you could kindly spare time to deliver a lecture/talk on "Pakistan's Relations with China; Time-tested Friendship and CPEC" on 4th May, 201 8from 11:3 0am to 12:3 0p.m. in this Institute.
3. Course Coordinator Mrs. Tahira Saleem (Cell: -------------------) shall be available for any assistance. 
With best regards; 
Yours sincerely,
(Syed Hasnain Mehdi)
Mr. Tajammul Altaf
Ambassador (Retd.)
Address----------------



















Specialized Training Programme for OMG (Probationers)
(D.O.Letter from Mr. Badr-ul-Arifeen, Director, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad to Mr. Jamshaid Alam, Joint Secretary(Retd.)
Badr-ul-Arifeen,
Director Government of Pakistan
Tel.------------(Establishment Division)
Secretariat Training Institute
D.O.No. 2-1/2013-OMG Islamabad, 3rd  May, 2013
Subject: Specialized Training Programme for OMG (Probationers)
Dear Mr.------------------,
A batch of 5 4OMG (Probationers) belonging to 40th CTP is undergoing Specialized Training Programme in this Institute. 
During STP, these officers are taught functional subjects as well as trained in various Management fields.
2. Apart from specialized area of training, this Institute has been endeavoring to broaden the vision of officers by inviting Ministers, Federal Secretaries, Senior Officers from Armed Forces, Academies, Professionals, Social Activists and Heads of Donor Agencies etc. as Guest Speakers who have achieved excellence in their respective areas. 
The first hand knowledge and experience shared by the esteemed speakers is of immense value for professional development of probationary officers. 
The objective is to train the future generation of officers in such a manner that they are able to shoulder their responsibilities efficiently and effectively.
3. I shall be highly grateful if you could kindly spare some moments out of your busy schedule and share your knowledge on the topic "Introduction to Secretariat Instructions and Office Procedures" on 9th May, 2013 at 11.30 hrs to 13.30 hrs. 
Yours sincerely,
(Badr-ul-Arifeen)
Mr. Jamshaid Alam
Joint Secretary(Retd)
House No. 267, Gali No. 34, G-10/1, Islamabad




























































Meeting with the Trainee Officers
 (Letter of Thanks from the Director General, ----name of the training academy/institute------ to the Chairman, ----name of the institution)
Director General Government of Pakistan
Tel.-------------(--------------Division)
Fax.----------------			         
name of training academy institute----
D.O.No. -----------------Islamabad,  date--------------------
Subject: Specialized Training Programme for -----name of Group/Service------  Officers (probationers)
Dear Mr--------------------,
It was indeed a great pleasure talking to your goodself on --------date--------. As discussed, a batch of --------------- (Probationers) belonging to the CTP ------name of group--------- are currently undergoing Specialized Training Program in this Institute/Academy.
2. I am highly grateful for consenting my request to have a meeting with the officers on ----------at ------------------ Islamabad. 
I believe that it would be a unique opportunity for the young officers to learn about the important role of ------name of national institution------- to  in the service of the people as well as from your personal experiences as a civil servant. 
With my best regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-----------name----------)
Mr.-------------------------
Chairman
-----name of the institution-----Islamabad
Request for Arrangement of a Training Course for -------------- Group Probationers
(Letter from Director-----------Service Academy, to the Director, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad)
Please refer to our telephonic conversation of this morning.
2. I would like to draw your kind attention to this Academy's letter of even number dated---------------- and to request that a --------------week training course for the-----------------Group probationers may kindly be arranged at you Institute during-------------------.
3. The probationers are expected to appear in the FPO examination of the FPSC after--------------------. They will be relieved from this Academy and posted out to various Departments on ------------------. Hence, the dates between ---------------to --------------- will be convenient to our trainees.
4. Since the number of trainees is only -------------------we hope that your esteemed institution will not find it difficult to accommodate our request for the training course during the period mentioned above.
Yours sincerely,
Director Secretariat Training Institute
Establishment Division, Islamabad
National Workshop on Health Services Management
(D.O.Letter from Dr. Siraj ul Haq Mahmud, Senior Chief, Planning & Development Division, to Mr. Moin Ahmad Siddiqui, Director  Islamabad.(BS-20), STI, Islamabad)
Dr. Siraj ul Haq Mahmood, Government of Pakistan
Senior Chief Ministry of Planning & Development
Tel.--------------
Planning & Development Division
No. 13(3)HPC/87	Islamabad, 15th December 1987
My Dear,
Enclosed is the agenda of the National Workshop on Health Services Management 21-3 1December 1987 being held at Lahore. 
This workshop is being organized by the College of Community Medicine, Lahore. 
2. Having been associated with the above said Workshop, we approached you to kindly indicate the experts who could enrich the participant with their experience on personnel management. As agreed on telephone we, have the following subjects allotted to experts indicated by you: 
i. Service rules and discipline rules by Mr.A.H. Zuberi;
ii. Performance Evaluation by Mr. Zia ul Hasan 
3. Could l approach through you to request these experts to join the Workshop on 27.11.1987 and enrich the participants with their expertise.
Yours sincerely,
(Dr. Siraj ul Haq Mahmood)
Mr. Moin Ahmad Siddiqui
Director Secretariat Training Institute, Rawalpindi
Copy to:
1. Mr. Zia ul Hasan c/o Director, Secretariat Training Institute Rawalpindi**
2. Mr. A.H. Zuberi
Ex-officio Status (Joint Secretary), Now the Institute is Headed by Director General (BS-21/21)
This Institute has now been shifted to H-9, Sector, Islamabad.
(D.O.Letter from Mr. Abdullah, Director, Provincial Services Academy, Peshawar to Mr. Zai-ul-Hassan, Deputy Secretary, Establishment Division)
Abdullah						  
Provincial Services Academy
Director Academy Town, Peshawar
Tel.-----------------
No. PSA/995 Islamabad, December 22, 1988
My dear Hassan,
The Provincial Services Academy is conducting a four months course for Section officers (Probationers) of N.W.F.P. (1) In this programme distinguished administrators and eminent scholars are invited as guest speakers to address the participants. 
Scheduled in the programme are talks on:
Subject: Government Instructions on the writing of confidential Reports.(2)
Date & Time: 08.01.198 9at 1030-113  0& 1200-130 0hours.  
2. I shall deem it a privilege and honour to this Academy, if you could kindly consent to deliver talks on the above subject followed by discussion. 
As we have to finalize the programme before hand, I shall be grateful to receive your acceptance as early as possible. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Abdullah)
Director
Mr. Zia-ul-Hassan
Deputy Secretary
Establishment Division
Government of Pakistan, Rawalpindi (3)

(1)	Khyber Pakhtun Khaw
(2)	Performance Evaluation Reports
(3)	Shifted to Islamabad
Acceptance of invitation for a talk to the participants
(D.O.Letter from Syed Sia-ul-Hasan, Deputy Secretary, Establishment Division, to Mr. Abdullah, Director, Provincial Services Academy, Peshawar)
Immediate 
Cabinet Secretariat
Establishment Division
Government of Pakistan, Rawalpindi
D.O. No. 1/1/88-DS(CP-I) the 27th December, 1988	
My dear Abdullah sahib,
Kindly refer to your letter No. PSA/995, dated 22nd December, 1988 regarding a talk on "Government Instructions on the writing of Confidential Reports*" on 8-1-1989. 
2. I will feel honoured to be with you and talk to the participants on the subject. 
With best regards, 
Yours sincerely,
(Syed Zia-ul-Hasan)
Mr. Abdullah
Director
Provincial Services Academy
Academy Town, Peshawar

Perform once Evaluation Reports
Telephone Policy
(List of Contents)
Introductory  Note
(a) Installation of Telephone
(b) Payment of Telephone bill (Office/Residence)
D.O.Letter from Mr. Shahidullah Baig, Additional Secretary, Cabinet Division to All Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge
Installation of Telephone at Office/Residence and Payment of Telephone Bills
Installation of Telephone













(b) Payment of Telephone Bill (Office/Residence)















(D.O.Letter from Shahidullah Baig, Additional Secretary, Cabinet Division to all the Federal Secretaries)

Government of Pakistan
Additional Secretary
Cabinet Division
Ph.------------------No. 3-18/201 0RA.IV	Islamabad, the 8th July, 2010
Subject: Telephone committee Meetings
My dear Secretary/Additional Secretary Incharge,
Cabinet Division deals with telephone policy which includes landline, cell phone, fax connection and DSL connection cases received from Ministries/Division/ Attached Departments etc. for seeking permission/ relaxation such type of cases are considered by the Telephone Committee comprising Additional Secretary (EC&R) Cabinet Division and Additional Secretary  (Expenditure),  Finance Division.
2. In order to maintain proper control, all Ministries/Divisions are required to refer their cases to the Cabinet Division for consideration by the Telephone Committee after approval of their Principal Accounting Officer but this procedure is not being observed.
3. keeping in view the financial constraints and austerity measures announced by the Government, all Ministries/ Divisions are once again informed that in future only those cases will be considered by the Telephone Committee which have the approval of the Principal Accounting Officer.
With regards, 
Yours sincerely, 
(Shahid Ullah Baig)
All Federal Secretaries/ Additional Secretaries Incharge of Ministries/Divisions Islamabad/Rawalpindi


Unclassified Official Records---
Availability to the Scholars/Researchers
Letter from Mr. Zahur Azar, Cabinet Secretary to All Secretaries/ Additional Secretaries Incharge and all Provincial Governments
Introductory  Note

(Public Body)








(Public Record)
(Publication and Availability of Record)
(Information Exempt from Disclosure)



































































(D.O.Letter from Mr. Zahur Azar, Cabinet Secretary to all Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge and all Provincial Governments)
Cabinet Secretariat Cabinet Division
Zahur Azar
Cabinet Secretary
Tel.-----------------------
No. 3/1/85-NDC Rawalpindi, 19th August 1986
Subject: Access to Unclassified Official Records
My dear Secretary,
It has been emphasized from time to time that due attention should be paid to the collection and preservation of official records, publications and other materials as archives or public documents and their optimum utilization for official purposes, research and study ensured. 
A copy of the President's latest directive (No.38 9of 1985) on the subject is enclosed. 
2.	It is generally felt that the prescribed procedures governing declassification of official records are not being followed, leading often to their non-transmittal to archives repositories concerned and their consequential inaccessibility for study and research by scholars and others. 
It is accordingly requested that the Ministries/Divisions of the Federal Government and the various Departments of the Provincial Governments should arrange, at designated points, to make available to interested people at least unclassified printed official materials, reports, memoranda and documents in their custody. 
This should to some extent mitigate public grievance. 
3. You are, therefore, requested to make necessary arrangements for the purpose and publicize them suitably.
Yours sincerely,
(Zahur Azar)
Encl: President's Directive No. 38 9to 1985
All Secretaries/Additional Secretaries incharge of Ministries/Divisions 
Cabinet Secretary
All Provincial Governments


Visits Abroad
(List of Contents)
(D.O. Letter from Mr. Asad Ali Shah Additional Secretary, Cabinet Division to all the Federal Secretaries/Additional Secretaries Incharge, all the Provincial Governments)
Instructions on Visits Abroad
(Obligatory Visits)
(Non-Obligatory Visits)



































































Visits abroad (D.O.Letter from Mr. Asad Ali Shah, Additional Secretary, Cabinet Division to all Secretaries/ Additional Secretaries Incharge of Ministries/Division and all Provincial Governments)
Government of Pakistan
Cabinet Division
Asad Ali Shah
From: Additional Secretary
N0. 1/556/79 Min.II Rawalpindi, the 8th December, 1979
Subject: Briefing of delegations going abroad
My dear,
A case has come to notice where a delegation had not been provided with a clear brief and the delegates also, on their part, had not undertaken to apprise themselves of the guidelines framed and issued by the Government regarding their conduct and behaviour abroad. 
The result was that, owing to their ignorance of rules and procedures, the delegation signed a document in a foreign country without proper authorization which could place the Government of Pakistan in an embarrassing situation. 
2. The matter was brought to notice of the President who has been pleased to direct that attention of all Ministries/Divisions and the Provincial Governments should be drawn to the requirement of briefing all delegations going abroad. 
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs had issued a booklet called "Guidance for Pakistan delegations to International Conferences, Meetings etc.," in 197 2which is being re-circulated separately to all concerned for strict observance. However an extract from Para 2 3thereof is enclosed for your immediate reference.
3. You are accordingly requested to kindly note the above directions of the President and to ensure that all delegations proceeding abroad are properly briefed and the instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this behalf strictly observed. 
4. In the meantime kindly acknowledge receipt. 
Your sincerely,
(Asad Ali Shah)
All Secretaries/Additional Secretaries incharge of Ministries/Divisions
All Provincial Governments
Enclosure
"Guidance for Pakistan delegations to International Conferences, meetings etc.".
Extract from para 2 3of the bookket published by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs booklet
"23. A delegation is expected to strictly adhere to the Government's instructions set out in the brief. In case unexpected issues come up during discussions, you should not commit yourself without prior instructions from the Government. 
Sometimes the brief given by the sponsoring Ministry contains guidelines on major policy issues. In case issues arise which are not covered by the brief, ask for time to enable you to obtain instructions from home. 
It is essential to remember that you should not take a decision on your own initiative which may involve a commitment on the part of your Government against its policies". 
(Reference : D.O. Letter No.1/556/7 9Min II dated 8th December, 197 9from Additional Secretary, Cabinet Division ---------See P 75 6of this book)

Wafaqi Mohtasib
(List of Contents)
(Institution of the Federal Ombudsman)
(D.O.Letter from Mr. Muhammad Asghar Ch., Secretary Wafaqi Mohtasib (Ombudsman)'s Secretariat to Mr. Khawaja Wajihuddin Registrar, Peshawar High Court, Peshawar)
(Letter from Mr. Saeed Ahmad Qureshi Former Federal Secretary to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman)
(D.O.Letter from Mr. Faqir Hussain, Director General, Federal Judicial Academy, Islamabad to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui NI, Federal Ombudsman)
Federal Ombudsman's Annual Report(Letter from Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah, NI(M), to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, NI, Federal Ombudsman)
(Letter from Mrs. Nargis Sethi, Chief Executive Officer Centre for Capacity Development Pvt. Ltd. To Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman)
(Letter from Lt.Gen.(Retd.) Nasir Khan Janjua, HI(M) to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, NI, Federal Ombudsman)
(Letter from General Rashad Memood, NI(M), Chairman, Joint Chief of  Staff  Committee to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, (NI),  Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan, Islamabad)
Institution of the Federal Ombudsman












































(D.O.Letter from Mr. Muhammad Asghar Ch., Secretary Wafaqi Mohtasib (Ombudsman)'s Secretariat to Mr. Khawaja Wajihuddin, Registrar, Peshawar High Court, Peshawar)
Most Immediate
Muhammad Asghar Ch. 
Wafaqi Mohtasib
Secretary						     (Ombudsman)'s Secretariat
Te.------------------------
No. 19(1)WMS/Coord/2018	August 31, 2018
Subject: Request for Meeting with the Honourable Chief Justice
My dear Registrar,
In pursuance of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of Pakistan's Order dated 24.4.201 8passed in Suo Moto Case No.1/2016, a Committee was constituted under the Chairmanship of the Honourable Wafaqi Mohtasib, Syed Tahir Shahbaz, for submission of its recommendations to the Honourable Supreme Court of Pakistan for improvement of the conditions of women in jails in Pakistan. 
After several meetings, the Committee formulated its recommendations which have already been circulated to all concerned, including, the provincial Home Departments. 
2. For effective implementation of the Committee's recommendations, the Honourable Wafaqi Mohtasib, Syed Tahir Shahbaz, has desired to meet with Mr. Justice Waqar Ahmad Seth, the Honourable Chief Justice of the Peshawar High Court during his visit to Peshawar on Thursday, 6th September 2018. 
3. It would be appreciated if a meeting of the Honourable Wafaqi Mohtasib with the honourable Chief Justice of the Peshawar High Court is scheduled as requested and the time of the meeting is conveyed to this Secretariat. 
Yours sincerely,
(Muhammad Asghar Ch.)
Mr. Khawaja Wajihuddin
Registrar
Peshawar High Court, Peshawar



















(Letter from Mr. Saeed Ahmad Qureshi, Former Federal Secretary to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman)
Mr. Salman Faruqui
Federal Ombudsman.Constitution Avenue, Islamabad
5 March 2015
Subject: Alternate Dispute Resolution 
Dear Salman,
Thank you so much for your letter dated 1 8February 2015. Please accept my compliments for the quick and effective relief provided to the public during your tenure.
The initiative for recourse to the Alternative Dispute Resolution is long overdue. 
Our judicial system is the weakest part of the British legacy that has been concerned more with law than justice. 
It has simply failed to perform the service it was expected.
As reforming the judicial system would be long and difficult process, the only feasible recourse is ADR. 
I wish you success in this initiative.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Saeed Ahmad Qureshi)


(Letter from Dr. Faqir Hussain, Director General, Federal Judicial Academy, Islamabad to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, NI, Federal Ombudsman)
Government of Pakistan
Federal judicial Academy, Islamabad
(Service Road South H-8/4)
Dr. Faqir Hussain, Ph. -----------------------
Director General Fax.-----------------------
E-mail.-------------------
No. F.14(203)/2015-FJA
18th March 2015
Subject: Resolution within Sixty Days of the Complaints of Citizens against Maladministration by Local, Provincial and Federal Government Agencies
Dear Salman Faruqui,
Thank you for your letter dated 26. 5102 2 along with a copy of study report on the ADR. 
Apparently, you have been able to eliminate the backlog of pending cases altogether, and I am glad to know that the time span for deciding a complaint has been reduced to  2 months. 
This is no mean achievement. 
It has become possible because of your dedication/commitment to the task. 
It is good to know or come across such success stories about State institutions, which is both heartening and spirit-elevating. 
Congratulations to you and your team members in the Office of Federal Ombudsman. The study, 'Alternate Dispute Resolution at the Gross Root Level, will be a useful addition to our Library, which is used for research by trainee judges/justice sector professional.
With profound regards, 
Yours sincerely, 
(Dr. Faqir Hussain)
Mr. Salman Faruqui
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan Islamabad



Federal Ombudsman's Annual Report
(Letter from Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah NI(M) to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, NI, Federal Ombudsman)
Admiral Muhammad Zakaullah NI(M)
Chief of the Naval Staff
Naval Headquarters, Islamabad
NL/7402/2015
2 0August 2015
Mr. M Salman Faruqui, NI
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan Islamabad
Honourable Federal Ombudsman,

I am pleased to acknowledge the receipt of Ombudsman's Annual Report 2 10 alongwith booklet titled "Proposal for Free and Speedy Resolution of Citizen Complaints against Mal-administration of Federal, Provincial and Local Government Agencies under One Roof at the Grassroots". 
The land mark achieved during the last year regarding formulation of Federal Advisory Committee on Reforms and Alternate Dispute Resolution, disposing off unprecedented number of complaints and exemplary working of Grievances Commissioners are indeed source of encouragement and restoring people's confidence in the system. These achievements are also indicative of your dynamic leadership and vision.
The proposal containing initiative to provide justice at the doorstep free of cost to the poor segment of society is highly commendable. It will go a long way in solving people's problems expeditiously. 
With best wishes and regards 
Yours sincerely,
(Muhammad Zakaullah)
Altermante Dispute Resolution at the grass root level
(Letter from Mrs. Nargis Sethi, Chief Executive  Officer Centre for Capacity Development Pvt. Ltd. to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, Federal Ombudsman)
CCO Centre for Capacity Development, Pvt. Ltd.
Ref. --------------Islamabad,  2nd March 2015
Subject: Resolution Within Sixty Days of Citizens, Complaints Against Mal-administration by Local, Provincial and Federal Government Agencies and their Officials
Dear Mr. Faruqui,
Thank you for sending me a copy of the work done on Alternate Dispute Resolution at the Grass root level by the office of the Federal Ombudsman.
2. It is a great initiative jointly undertaken by the teams of Federal and Provincial Ombudsmen. 
I would like to compliment all those who have contributed in compilation of this work which would go in streamlining redressal mechanism for provision of speedy justice for the people.
3. I hope that the Federal Ombudsman's office would keep up the good work to address the problems forced by the common man in Pakistan.
With profound regards,
Yours sincerely
(Nargis Sethi)
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. M Salman Faruqui
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan, Islamabad






(D.O.Letter from National Security Advisor to the Prime Minister of Pakistan)
Lt. Gen. (Retd) Nasser Khan Janjua,HI(M)	     Prime Minister's Office National Security Division, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad
National Security Adviser F.No.1-1/2016-NSA 7th December, 2016
My dear Mr. M. Salman Faruqui
Honorable Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan
Assalam-o-Alaikum,
Thank you very much for sending me a comprehensive report of Federal Ombudsman's Report on a New Regulatory Regime for Growth and Development in Pakistan, prepared by a Committee constituted under Article 28(2) of the President's Order I of 198 3to conduct a thorough study of the working of regulatory institutions in Pakistan.
2. I have gone through the whole report and found it very useful as having viable recommendations for the Government to implement in true letter and spirit, which will definitely ensure good governance and proper service delivery to the people of Pakistan through the regulatory bodies of the Government by adopting proper supervision of regulatory regime which will definitely enhance the growth and development in Pakistan in the days to come.
3. Let me commend and acknowledge your personal efforts for making the important institution of Federal Ombudsman "a hope" for the oppressed and suppressed segments of our society who feel frequently aggrieved by the mal-administration of our Government Institutions and it is heartening to note that during the last three years of your tenure as Federal Ombudsman, more than Three Hundred Thousand complaints were not only disposed of by your esteemed organization but more than 90% findings/decisions have also been got implemented, which provided relief and justice to the aggrieved  complainants who knocked at your door.
4.	I am also desirous to visit your office soon to know more about your system of complaint resolution because "Justice Security" of the people of Pakistan is an important component of our National Security Policy. I will appreciate if you could kindly spare some time for arranging a presentation for me on any date in the third week of December, 201 6in your office, so that, we may be able to adopt proper mechanism through outreach programme for redressal of grievances of general public at their door steps promptly and devotedly, which will enhance the confidence of the citizens in the State of Pakistan.
With profound regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Lt. Gen. (Retd.) Nasser Khan Junjua, HI(M)
Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, (NI)
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan 36-Constitution Avenue, Islamabad












(Letter from General Rashad Mahmood, NI(M), Chairman, Joint Chiefs of
Staff Committee to Mr. M. Salman Faruqui, (NI), Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan, Islamabad)
General Rashad Mahmood, NI(M)
Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff committee
Joint Staff Headquarters, Rawalpindi
Mr. Muhammad Salman Faruqui, (NI)
Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan, Islamabad
No. PF/16871/DO	2 2May 2015
Dear Salman Faruqui Sahib,
Assalam-o-Alaikum,
I thank you for sending me the annual report of Federal Ombudsman of Pakistan for the year 201 4and booklet about proposal for free and speedy resolution of citizen complaints at the grassroots level. 
I deeply admire your efforts in making Federal Ministries and agencies more sensitive and responsive to the grievances of common man.
I wish you and your team success in all your present and future endeavours.
Best wishes and regards,
Yours sincerely,
(-----signature----)
Bibliography
1. Rules of Business 1973, Cabinet Division.
2. Secretariat Instructions, Pakistan Public Administration Research Centre, MS Wing, Establishment Division, Islamabad, 2004.
3. A Guide to Performance Evaluation, PPARC, MS Wing, Establishment Division, Islamabad, 2004.
4. Establishment Manual, PPARC, MS Wing, Establishment Division, Islamabad.
5. Estacode, PPAC, MS Wing, Establishment Division, Islamabad, 2015.
6. Report of the Accountability and Control of Autonomous Corporations, Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Finance, 1966.
7. Implementation of Administrative Reforms, (Acts, Rules, Regulations, Instructions etc.) From August 15, 197 3to November 30, 1973, Establishment Division (Administrative Reforms Cell, 1975).
8. Federal Public Service Commission, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad. Annual Reports 2015, 2016.
9. Federal Ombudsman (Wafaqi Mohtasib), Islamabad, Annual Report 2015.
10. Federal Tax Ombudsman, Islamabad. Annual Report 2015.
11. Federal Ombudsman, (Wafaqi Mohtasib), Islamabad, Annual Report 2016.
12. Federal Ombudsman (Wafaqi Mohtasib), Islamabad, Report of the Committee on Capacity Building for Public Service Delivery to meet contemporary Challenges, 2017.
13. Federal Ombudsman (Wafaqi Mohtasib) Islamabad, Report on Government Procurement System to address maladministration and ensure transparency, 2016.
14. NCGR (National Committee for Grant Reforms) National Training Strategy   for Civil Services.
15. Kiran Khurshid, A Treatise on the Civil Service of Pakistan: The Structural - Functional History (1601-2011), Pak TM Printers, Faisalabad, 2011.
16. Aidah Nassazi, Effects of Training on Employee Performance, Evidence  from Uganda, University of Applied Sciences, VAASAN AMMATTIKORKEA KOULU, 2013.
17. Z.A. Bhutto, Bilateralism.
Dictionaries
8. Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary, Oxford University Press, 2010
Websites
Wikipaedia------A number of websites on different subjects.
Several websites conaining copies of original letters/Specimen letters for various occasions.
Websites of the Government of Pakistan (Ministries, Divisions, Departments, Autonomous bodies).
Official websites of the foreign governments/embassies.
Websites containing profiles of the individuals, for profiles/C.V.s.
Personal Record of friends, former colleagues and individuals for profiles/CVs.




















