Early action please.
Early action please.
Effective implementation of the instructions be ensured.
This case needs to be attended to.
For quick response keep on reminding from time to time.
Please take immediate steps.
Please take immediate action.
Please take immediate action.
Please take it into account.
Please take legal proceedings.
Please take the initiative.
Please take the initiative in this regard.
Please take the initiave immediately.
Please take the initiave immediately.
Please initiate the case.
Please take notice.
Please take further necessary action.
Please also take into consideration this aspect of the  case.
Please take action accordingly.
Please take this case personally to the Deputy Financial Adviser.
Please draw up the memorandum on this subject.
Please see my observation in the margin of the preceding paragragh.
Please send an interim reply.
Please remind the Ministry of Education.
Please follow-up until the report is received.
Please await further action.

Please await further report.
Please await return of the file.
Please await the reply.
Please await the return of the Secretary.
Please await further orders.
Please await decision of the case.
Ministry of Finance may be consulted.
Ministry of Law may be requested to clarify further in this case.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs may be referred to.
Ministry of Education may be reminded.
Ministry of Interior may be approached.
Ministry of Defence may be contacted.
Ministry of Commerce may be advised.
Please amend it.
Please amend the draft as discussed
Please amend the draft keeping in view the latest  development of the case.
Please amend the draft accordingly.
Please amend the draft as proposed.
Please amend the draft as directed.
Matter may please be clarified.
Matter may please be explained.
Matter in issue may please be stated in detail.
Matter under consideration may please be discussed with the undersigned today.
Matters in conflict may kindly be stated separately.
Please circulate and file.
Please circulate and file.
Please circulate and file.
Please inform immediately.
Please expedite compliance.
Please expedite compliance.
Please expedite disposal.
Please finalize the case expeditiously.
Please remove discrepency in the statement.
Please remove discrepency in the statement.
Please remove discrepency in the statement.
Please remove discrepency in the statement.
Please obtain formal sanction.
Please obtain formal sanction.
Issue please.
Issue today.
Issue as amended.
Issue as proposed.
Issue reminder urgently.
Issue without further delay.
Issue and report.
Issue and report.
Issue and resubmit the file.
Issue accordingly.
Issue the letter and follow up.
Seen.
Issue.
Seen and returned.
Seen.
Thanks.
Sanctioned as proposed.
Office to note and comply.
Order may be issued.
Open part file.
Open part file.
Explanation may be called for.
This is a final decision.
This is a final order.
This is our joint responsibility.
This may please be treated as priority case.
This draft may now be issued.
Return of the file may be awaited.
Relevant papers may be put up.
Please submit annual performance report.
Please submit the detailed report on the subject.
Please submit the consolidated report as amended.
Please submit the final draft immediately.
Please submit this file for the perusal of the Secretary.
Please submit the quarterly inspection report  without further delay.
Please resubmit the file after one week.
Please resubmit the case on Monday.
Please resubmit this report after my  return from forthcoming tour.
Please resubmit these papers on the eve of my visit to Lahore.
Please resubmit the file when all the reminders are issued.
Comments may be invited.
Comments may be invited.
Further comments are no longer  necessary.
Please put up draft summary.
Copy to be added to File No .............. for action on item 7in para 2.
Copy to be placed on the file.
Copy to be placed on the file.
Spare copies to be destroyed now
One copy will do.
Please prepare the case to obtain administrative approval in this regard.
Explanation from the defaulter may be obtained.
Signed.
Please send this letter by special messenger.

This letter may please be issued forthwith.
Please send this letter under registered cover.

His request cannot be acceded to.
The proposal in its present form is not acceptable.
Please discuss.
The proposed action is contrary to the announced policy of the Government.
Please speak.
Application may be rejected.
The assumption given in para 65 is not  borne by facts.
Please see for necessary action.
Please examine and submit early.
Most of the points made appear to be right and correct.
May be kept in mind, as far as possible, in dealing with the case.
I have spoken to Mr. ..................
Await response.
Signed for issue.
Please let me have a programme for implementing the  proposal.
Consult Establishment Division, if necessary.
Matter has already been taken up with the Additional Secretary concerned.
Please pursue this case.
Let us make a self-contained reference to the Establishment Division on the subject.
Draft reply please.
Signed.
May issue.
Thereafter, draft reply to the F.R. in the file may be put up.
Clean copy as revised.
Please put up on file dealing with this subject.
Please put up on file dealing with this subject.
I am busy with meetings for two days.
The case may be put up after a week or so.
Action as discussed.
Please put up actual position and draft quickly.
Discussed.
Approved as proposed in para ........../N above.
Please proceed as per orders and keep me posted with progress.
However, before taking action, see whether concurrence of DFA (Cab.) is required.
Please discuss with J.S. (Budget) as well.
We should raise the level of discussion only after proper consideration at lower levels.
In any case please prepare a self-contained brief urgently so that it can be used for discussion at all levels.
In any case please prepare a self-contained brief urgently so that it can be used for discussion at all levels.
We must get views of the ..... on the action plan as soon as possible.
I shall consider the position submitted above later.
Please first issue reminder to .... to let us have their concurrence to the proposed training plan.
Seen.
We would require a follow up and reporting system to keep ourselves posted with the development in this matter.
Please take action on the orders of the Secretary immediately as discussed.
As discussed. In the first instance, views of the ........ on the  Action Plan may be obtained and the case resubmitted to the Secretary.
Draft letter to  .................
Early please.
Please follow up with .......... so that the Action Plan with such modifications as may be required in it, can be put into effect by an early date.
Let us discuss this case on the 14th instant.
Queries from higher officers.
When submitted and to whom?
Why such an order should not be passed?
Whether rates are prescribed?
Whether the action is in order?
Where is the annexure of the letter to be issued?
Let me know the anticipated expenditure and saving during current financial year.
Please let me know the source of information.
What is the Education Division's reply to the proposed plan of action?
Please discuss early.
Why to reduce the number of units?
Please speak.
What alternative do we have?
What was the suggestion made by the .... .......... in this connection?
What reply is outstanding?
Please put up.
see d.o. letter at P-28/C.
Has reply been sent?
Any suggestion?
Received today.
Any comments?
Present position of the case
The case is under consideration.
The matter has been under consideration for a long time.
The matter is under discussion.
The case is under enquiry.
The project is under execution.
Explanatory memorandum has been received and would be submitted in due course.
Final orders have to be passed by the authorised officer.
Final orders have to be passed by the authorised officer.
Final report is awaited from Regional offices.
Formal approval of the plan is awaited.
Formal orders have not been issued yet.
The file is held in abeyance pending receipt of further information.
Matter has been referred to concerned quarters.
Matter has been dropped.
Reaction to the instructions from various Ministries/Divisions has been summed up as follows.
Reaction to the instructions from various  has been summed up as follows.
The latest position of the case is given below.
Action required to be taken by us is summed up as follows.
This case deals with a scheme of ................. .
The latest progress in respect of various components of this scheme is reflected in detail in paragragh 28/N.
The position appears to be as follows.

No definite position in this connection  can be stated as yet.
Replies from the following agencies are still awaited.
Views from all the Ministries/Divisions concerned and Provincial Govern- ments except Government of ................. have been received.
They have submitted the case to the Chief Minister and a reply would be sent by next week.
Sentences used for submission of files to higher officers
Submitted please.
Submitted for approval please.
Submitted for  consideration please.
Submitted for perusal please.
Submitted for orders please.
Submitted for signature please
Submitted for concurrence please.
Submitted for decision please.
Submitted for instructions please.
Submitted for sanction please.
Submitted for  favour of orders.
Submitted for favour of perusal.
Submitted for favour of signature.
Submitted for favour of consideration.
Submitted for favour of approval.
Submitted for favour of sanction.
Submitted for ready reference.
Submitted for remarks.
Submitted for necessary action.
Submitted as advised please.
Submitted as amended please.
Submitted as proposed please.
Submitted as ordered please.
Submitted as instructed please.
Submitted as modified please.
Submitted as directed please.
Submitted as desired.
Submitted as detailed below.
Submitted as per detail on reverse.
Submitted as per schedule below.









Diplomatic compliments at the beginning  of Diplomatic Note/ Note Verbale
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan presents its compliments to the Embassy of .......... and has the honour to state/request/forward.
The Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, ............ presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ................  and has the honour to state/ request/ forward.
Diplomatic compliments at the end of Diplomatic Note/ Note Verbale
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy of ............  the assurances of its highest consideration.
The Embassy of the Islamic Repbulic of Pakistan Pakistan, ......... avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ................, the assurances of its highest consideration.
Specimen of Diplomatic Note/ Note Verbale (English-Urdu)
Embassy of Pakistan,
Arab Republic of Egypt,
Cairo
No. ...................                                                           
date. ......................
The Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in Cairo presents its compliments to the Embassy of Somalia in Cairo and has the honour to request that diplomatic Visa may be granted on the enclosed Pakistan Diplomatic Passport No. ................ issued on ..................  in favour of H.E  Air Commodore (Retd.) Zafar Mahmood, Ambassador of Pakistan (designate) to Somalia.
2. The Embassy of the Islamic Repubic of Pakistan in Cairo avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy of Somalia the assurances of its highest consideration.
Embassy seal/initial
Embassy of Somalia
Cairo
Aide Memoire
۔















Specimen of Aide Memoire (English-Urdu)
Aide Memoire
.............(dated) ..............
Pakistan and Senegal are enjoying excellent bilateral relations.
Both the countries are working hand in hand to further enhance the cooperation between the two friendly countries.
To help boost Senegal's economy and to encourage private sector effective inter-action, M/S Medico, Lahore, a major producer/ exporter of medical equipment, participated in the international tender floated by the Ministry of Health of Senegal.
M/S Medico produces high quality goods of international specification and have successfully participated in a number of international tenders.
The company has quoted very competitive prices and would be willing to also favourably consider extending export credit.
Drafted by Mr. Manzoor Alam Qureshi, Deputy Secretary to the Government of Pakistan.
He earlier served as Charge d' affaires, Embassy of Pakistan, Senegal and also in the Embassy of Pakistan, Ankara.
	









Examples of demarche
In July 1914, a few days before World War I began, Australia and Russia exchanged demarches
In september 1996, US President Clinton issued a demarche to Iraqi President Saddam Husain when intelligence reports showed troops massing along the border of Kurd communities.
On August 30, 1999, Pakistan issued a demarche to India demanding that the Government of India should pay compensation for the loss of a Pakistani aircraft and the lives of the sixteen personnel on board when one of its military planes was shot down.
On 15 September, 2014 the Ell, its 2 8Member States and the governments of the United States, Australia, Brazil, Israel, New Zealand, Mexico and Monaco declared their opposition to the practice of the Icelandic government that still permits commercial whaling, in particular the hunting of fin whales and the subsequent trading of fin whale products. 
The Eu's Ambassador to Iceland, Matthias Brinkmann, alongwith the diplomatic representatives of the United States, France, Germany and the UK delivered a demarche to this effect to the Icelandic government.
The Ambassador also pointed out that public opinion in the countries that are Iceland's main trading partners is very much against the practice of whaling. 
This evidenced by the public pressure put on companies around the world to boycott Icelandic goods, not to mention the pressure that voters and various organisations put on their politicians, encouraging them to send Iceland an increasingly stronger message.
Text of the Demarche
Joint Demarche by the European Union, its member states and the Governments of the United States of America, Australia, Brazil, Israel, Mexico and New Zealand.
We, the European Union and its Member States and the Governments of the United States of America, Australia, Brazil, Israel and New Zealand, wish to express our strong opposition to Iceland's continuing and increased commercial harvest of whales, particularly fin whales and to its ongoing international trade in whale-products.
We encourage the Government of Iceland to adhere to the internationally agreed moratorium on commercial whaling and to re-examine the decision to continue to issue fin and minke whale quotas.
We also object to Iceland's international trade in whale products
In summary, we once again call upon Iceland to respect the IWC's* global moratorium and end its commercial whaling and international trade in whale products.








Forms of Communications used between various Federal Offices
Between Ministries/Divisions of the Federal Government
O.M., D.O. Letter, U.O. Note, Endorsement,  Telegram
From Ministries/Divisions to Attached Departments and Subordinate offices
Letter,O.M., Memo, D.O. letter, U.O. Note (Where permitted) Endorsement, Telegram
Between Ministries/Divisions, Attached Departments and their Subordinate Offices 
Memorandum, D.O. Letter, Endorsement, Telegram.
From Ministries/ Divisions to Provincial Governments, Semi Government Organisations, Autonomous Bodies.
Letter, D.O. letter,Endorsement, Telegram.
From Ministries to Private Associations 
Letter, D.O. Letter, Telegram.
From Ministries to Private individuals
Letter, D.O. Letter, Telegram, Memo (while replying to a petition and application for appointment)
Between Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Pakistan Missions abroad
Chancery Letter/Ministry Letter, D.O. Letter
Between Ministry of Foreign Affaires and Foreign Missions in Pakistan
Diplomatic Note/ Note Verbale, D.O. letter, Aide Memoire
Miscellaneous Sentences, Terms and Phrases
Sentences used in the contents of communication
I am to request that all concerned may kindly be informed of the above decisions for further guidance.
I am sending herewith a copy of the proposed draft contract.
I should be grateful if you kindly go through it and let me have your comments as soon as possible.
Will you please look into the matter personally.
Please take necessary action in this regard under  intimation to this office.
Please send your reply with the least possible delay.
Your comments in this regard are still awaited.
All the questions referred to in .........
A copy of the letter is enclosed.
Please expedite the reply.
It is, hereby, informed.
It is, hereby, renewed.
I shall be glad to be informed
I would, therefore, suggest.
The reply in this regard would be sent in due course.
Information asked for may please be supplied.
It is requested to kindly send your reply within one week of receiving our communication.
Please send your reply without further delay.
The following reports/ documents as mentioned in your letter  referred to above are sent herewith as desired.
The enclosures mentioned in your letter have not been received in this Division.
It is requested that the draft report may be revised in the light of the aforesaid comments and furnished to this Division for further necessary action.
It is accordingly requested that the  proposed review may be carried out at the earliest.
It is, therefore, requested that the same documents may  now kindly be supplied to enable this Ministry to proceed further.
It is requested that our main file on the subject which was referred to the Finance Division under our U.O. No. ........  dated .......... may kindly be returned to us at an early date to enable us to complete our papers.
Kindly supply the report as per bearer of this  communication.
The material may please be furnished to the undersigned  by the 4th of this month so that a consolidated monthly activity report may be prepared and submitted in time.
Information asked for may please be supplied immediately.
I shall, therefore, be obliged if you  kindly take personal  interest in this case and ensure that all the pending cases are finalised without further loss of time.
I shall be grateful if you would kindly arrange to intimate the latest position of printing so that Election Commission of Pakistan may be informed accordingly.
I am to request you to bring to the notice of all concerned the previous as well as the present instructions for careful compliance.
Strict compliance with these instructions may kindly be ensured in future.
These instructions may please be strictly complied with in future.
Immediate compliance of the orders is necessary.
Please report direct to ..........., the steps taken by you to remove the  defects pointed out by him and at the same time send a copy of the annotated report to ..........., for information.
In this connection your special attention is invited to para. 5 of the Audit Note in regard to the last Audit Note.
Please see that the defects pointed out therein are removed at an early date.
Further details are given in the accompanying documents.
Additional copies are enclosed.
Further orders will follow.
Kindly use your good offices for obtaining a decision.
It is hereby informed.
The history of gazetted officers working in your Division may kindly be furnished at an early date.
The President has now been pleased to decide that this scheme shall be introduced with effect from next financial year in supersession of the instructions contained in the Ministry  of Finance  O.M. No. ............ dated. .............
The matter has been considered in this Ministry and the President has been pleased to decide that .......
The matter has been further reviewed and it has been decided that a proper policy should be adopted.
It is emphasised that all claims may be finalisd before the above  date after which no claims on this account will be  entertained and the last date will not be extended further in any circumstances.
The attention of the Ministries and Departments is invited to the  Government's decision mentioned above with the request to take necessary action in the matter.
It is clarified that necessary Government approval to this effect shall be accorded by the Head of the Ministry/ Division concerned.
The matter has been considered further in this Ministry and it has been decided that in such cases the Ministers need not be troubled personally and that the administrative Ministries should decide cases at the level of the Official Head of the Ministry.
Instances have come to the notice of this Division that despite clear prohibitory orders, as contained in this Division's O.M. No. .............. dated........... as clarified under this Division's O.M. No.............. dated...... , some officers of autonomous, semi autonomous bodies ..............
It is, therefore, emphasised that .............
It is clarified that such cases are also covered by the said orders.
Ministries/ Divisions are also requested to confirm urgently, if the above mentioned rules have since been amended as requested in this Division's O.M. dated ........... referred to above.
Ministries /Divisions are requested to take action on paras 5-6 above at once.
The following further suggestions are made about the revised draft of the .....
It has been brought to the notice of the government that......
These orders shall come into force with effect from............... and shall apply to all civilian employees of the Federal Government to whom the Fundamental and Supplementary Rules, as a whole, apply.
It has further been decided that
It has also been decided that
After careful consideration of these cases, the Government of Pakistan is pleased to decide that ............
It has been brought to the notice of this Ministry that this condition is not usually complied with.
I shall be grateful to you to let us have this clarification  alongwith a copy of the revised orders, if any, as early as  possible.
Also please keep this office on your mailing list for supply of any general instructions ancillary to the Rules of Business issued by the Cabinet Division from time to time.
Ministries/ Divisions are accordingly requested to apply the modified procedures, where called for.
It is requested that the above amendment in the Secretariat Instructions may please be brought to the notice of all attached Departments, sub-ordinate offices etc.
All Ministries/ Diviision are requested to send quarterly  returns on 1st January, 1st April, 1st July and 1st October each year to this Division.
All Ministries/ Divisions are requested to inform their attached Departments, sub-ordinate Offices, autonomous bodies etc. and to ensure compliance with the procedure outlined in para 8 above.
An advice may be sought through the enclosed proforma.
All Ministries/ Division/ Departments etc. are accordingly requested to check the following points before sending every gazette notification to the press for printing.
Ministries/ Divisions are requested to issue similar instructions to their attached departments and sub-ordinate offices.
It is requested that steps may kindly be taken to implement these decisions and copy/ copies of orders issued in this connection may kindly be sent to this Division as early as possible.
All Ministries/ Divsions are requested to note the aforementioned change and carry out necessary amendment in the instructions issued under this Ministry's O.M. referred to in para  4 above.
It is requested that necessary information desired therein may please be furnished to this Division at an early date.
In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 44 of the Fundamental Rules, the Persident is pleased to direct that the following further amendments shall be made in the Supplementary Rules, namely:
Our comments on some of the suggestions/ alternatives mentioned in the draft report are as follows.
In this connection attention is invited to this office letter of even number dated ............
Relevant extract is enclosed for your kind perusal.
I hope this will be of some help to you.
The proposals received from the Communications Division have been examined in this Division in the light of the policy guidelines on the subject.
In this connection this Divsion have reached the following conclusions.
The findings of this Division are as follows.
It is stated that the matter is receiving the attention of the Government of Pakistan.
I will write to you again as soon as a decision is arrived at.
This may please be confirmed.
Management Services Division is accordingly requested  to please  confirm that they have agreed to the proposal of the creation of an additional post of the Section Officer.
This seems to be good idea.
It will be considered further when the  final report is examined in this  Division.
It is reproduced  below and may kindly be brought to the notice of all concerned.
It is requested that the clarification sought for by this Division may please be expedited.
Immediate reply is requested.
The proposals received from the Interior Division have been examined in this Division in the light of relevant rules and  regulations. The decisions of this Division are as follows.
I am bringing these important points to your kind notice at this time so that a decision could be taken well in time.
The letter dated ...........from M/s Pakistan Printing Press, Larkana, stated to have been enclosed with the d.o.letter referred to above has not been received. The same may kindly be supplied for further action by us.
I am to request that the sanction of Government be accorded to the retention in service of Mr. ......... from .............. to .............
I should be obliged if you would look into the matter personally and settle it without further delay.
The requsite details will be furnished in due course.
It has been decided that such cases shall be regulated as under.
It may, however, be pointed out that ............
A copy of the Office Memorandum No. ............. dated ...........  referred to above, is enclosed for ready reference.
The required statement is attached.                             
A Specimen Nomination Form is enclosed.
A copy of the orders issued in the matter may kindly be  endorsed to this ministry.
After very carefully considering your proposals, it has  been decided that.
As explaind in our previous letter           
As stated in our previous letter                      
As we have received no response from you,
If you give this matter your prompt attention,
In any event, a reply to this will be very much appreciated.   
We have come to the conclusion that ....
We found it impossible.                                        
I shall esteem it a personal favour.۔                         
I sincerely hope that you will give the subject your  earnest  consideration.
Authority to issue the Communication
This issues with the concurrence of the Finance Division.
This issues with the concurrence of the Deputy Financial Adviser vide his U.O. No. ..............., dated..............
This issues with the approval of the Secretary.
These posts have been created by......... by virtue of the powers delegated to him in .............
This issues with the agreement of Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
The Comptroller and Auditor General have been consulted before the issue of these orders.
Amendment/ Cancellation of Communication
In partial modification of this Division's Circular letter No  .......  dated ........... it is stated that .........
In partial supersession of this Ministry's letter of even number dated ............, it is stated that ...............
In cancellation of this Department's Memorandum of even number dated..........., it is stated that ...........
In partial modification of this Ministry's O.M. No............. dated .............. on the above subject, the Government of Pakistan have decided that ..............
In partial modification of instructions issued vide O.M. No. ........... dated .........., it has now been decided that .........
In supersession of all previous orders on the subject, I am  directed to convey the sanction of the President.
In supersession of all previous orders on the subject, I am  directed to convey the sanction of the President.
In cancellation of the previous O.M. of the same No., I am directed to convey the sanction of the President.
In supersession of the Resolution No. ...... dated........ on the above subject, under which the Composition of the Board of Governors was announced, the following Resolution is issued.
In supersession of this Division's O.M. No......... dated .......... on the subject noted above, the undersigned is directed to say that ...........
In supersession of the orders contained in this Ministry's Office Memoran- dum No. ..................... dated................, the undersigned is directed to say that ............
These orders also supersede those issued in this Ministry's O.M. No ........... dated ...........
This supersedes this Division's Notification of even number ......... dated .............
The Additional Secretary Incharge has directed that the following amendments/ additions be made in the Office Order No. ............ dated ................
In cancellation of all previous orders on the subject, it is stated that......
The earlier order on the subject dated ........... is hereby cancelled.
The existing rules and general orders on the subject shall be deemed to have been modified to the extent indicated in the above paragraphs.
The udersigned is directed to say that the orders issued in this Ministry's Office Memorandum No. ......... dated ......... are hereby withdrawn.
The Evidence Act 1872 (1 of 1872) is hereby repealed.
It has been decided to revise the existing rates of ......
The relevant rules are being amended accordingly.
Paragraph ....... of this O.M. No. .......... dated ........... shall be deemed to have been modified accordingly.
The existing heading shall be substituted as under.
Note 2 shall be omitted.                                                    
Column  5 of the table entitled "............" shall be deleted.
The other conditions prescribed in the O.M. of .......  referred to above will continue to be applicable.
This order will override all previous orders on the subject.
Date of effect of the orders
The revision shall come into force with effect from ............
This Notification shall be deemed to have taken effect from.....
These orders shall have effect from the date of issue of this Office Memorandum.
This sanction takes effect from. ............۔                   
This sanction will expire on ..........
This amendment shall be deemed to have taken effect on ....
These orders will be deemed to have taken effect from .......... and shall remain in force until further orders.
These orders will be effective from the date of issue.
These orders will have effect from the date of issue of this O.M.
These orders shall take effect from ..............
The above amendment shall take effect immediately.
These amendments shall take effect from ............
These orders shall come into force with immediate effect.
Request for Acknowledgement
Please acknowledge the receipt of the letter.
Please acknowledge receipt.
Please hand over per receipt.
Receipt of this communication may kindly be acknowledged.
Acknowledgement of Reciept
I am desired to acknowledge receipt  of your letter No......... dated ...........  addressed to ............ regarding ....
I am in receipt of your letter No............ dated ........... regarding ......
I must thank you for your letter of .......... on the above subject addressed to the Secretary Establihment Division.
Thank your for your letter dated .........
Thank your for sending your letter dated ............
I am grateful to you for sending me a copy of the minutes of  the meeting held on ...........
Thank you for sending me a copy of your letter dated ..........., addressed to ...........
I am pleased to acknowledge your letter dated .........
I want to thank you for your letter dated .......
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated .........
I acknowledge with thanks the receipt of complimentary copy received with your letter No. ...... dated ............
I am grateful for your letter No .......... dated ........ on the above subject. 
The extract supplied by you will serve my purpose.
Accessories of communications
Annex (To)
Append (To)
Attach (To)
Enclose (To)
Annexed
Appended
Attached
Enclosed
Addendum
Annexure (Annex)
Appendix
Enclosure
Specific words and sentences used in  Noting/ Correspondence
From/ To
From overleaf
From prepage
From prepage bottom
Noted
Noted above
Noted below
Noted down
Noted and returned
Noted and returned
Noted and returned
Noted for future reference
Noted for future reference
Noted for compliance
Noted on the reverse
Onwards
Onwards
Onwards
Original copy at Flag A
Outward	
Page ante	
Please turn over
Preceding note
Previous note
Previous papers
Per bearer
Signed, sealed and delivered.
Signed, sealed and delivered.
Signed, sealed and delivered.
Vide
Vide
Vide
Vide
Vide
Vide infra
Vide overleaf
Vide supra
Videlicet
Videlicet
Videlicet
Videlicet
viz
viz
viz
viz
Whereas
Whereas
Whereas
Whereas
Whereas
Whereas
Salutations
Sir,
Sir,
Sir,
Sir,
Madam,
Dear Mr.
My dear,
Dear Mr.
Gentlemen
Excellency
His Excellency
His Highness
His Highness
His Highness
His Royal Highness
His Royal Highness
His Royal Highness
Her Highness
Her Royal Highness
His Majesty
His Majesty
His Majesty
His Majesty
Her Majesty
Her Majesty
Honourable
Honourable
Honourable
Honourable
Most reverend
Most reverend
Mr.
Mr.
Mrs.
Miss
Dear Chancery
Dear Ministry
General Labels 
Fresh Receipt (FR)
Fresh Receipt (FR)
Paper Under Consideration (PUC)
Linked File (LF)
Linked File (LF)
Draft for Approval (DFA)
For Signature
Draft Summary for the President.
Draft Summary for the Prime Minister
Summary for the President
Summary for the Prime Minister
Summary for the Minister
Brief for the Minister
Self-contained Note
Self-contained Note
Self-contained Note
Parliamentary Labels
Assembly Question 
Senate Question
Material for Supplementary Questions
Adjournment Motion
Cut Motion
Privilege Motion
Resolution
Priority Labels
Residence





Immediate

Priority


Security Labels (For classified material)
Top Secret
Top Secret
Secret
Confidential
Restricted


Receipt, distribution and despatch
Central Registry






Classified Material






Despatch Terms
Immediate
By Special Massenger
By Special Massenger
By Diplomatic Bag
By post
Ordinary Dak
Postal address
Residential address
Economy slip
Cover
Envelope
Fair copy
Office copy
Issued
Stamp
Local despatch
Foreign despatch
Enclosure
Summary-writing
Summary





General Procedure for Summary-writing








Procedure for preparing summary for the Cabinet









Procedure for preparing summary for the President
Procedure for preparing summary for the Prime Minister






