Put up for decision



Put up on next Monday.
Put up next week.
Put up on return of the officer concerned.
Put up to the Secretary today.
Put up direct to the Minister.
Put up personally.
Put up previous papers.
Put up relevant papers
Put up with previous papers.
Put up with the file
Put up with the relevant file.
Put up with previous file.
Put up with the relevant record.
Put up as early as possible.
Put up immediately.
Put up urgently.
Put up urgently.
Put up promptly.
Put up as promptly as possible.
Put up as soon as possible.
Put up without delay.
Put up without further delay.
Put up the case with the least possible  delay.
Put up draft as proposed at  'A' above
Put up the case as required by the rule.
Put up draft as suggested at 'A' above
Put up the  case as verbally ordered  by Additional  Secretary
Put up after necessary preliminaries.
Put up after necessary action.
Put up comments.
Put up proposals
Put up the relevant rules and  regulations.
Put up the draft for approval.
Put up the previous annual report.
Put up the draft minutes of the meeting
Put up immediately matters of long  standing concerning your section.
Put up immediately matters of long  standing concerning your section.
Please discuss
Please speak.
Please report.
Please stencil.
Please examine.
Please analyse
Please investigate.
Please inspect.
Please scrutinize
Please check.
Please check.
Please probe.
Please assess.
Please assess.
Please audit.
Please compare.

Please amend.
Please add.

Please revise.
Please explain.

Please acknowledge.
Please acknowledge.
Please prepare the case for submission  to the competent authority.
Please prepare this case well in advance.
Please prepare case for the creation of a post of an assistant in the Accounts Section.
Please prepare case for the creation of a post of an assistant in the Accounts Section.
Please prepare a draft highlighting main points of the  case.
Please record a complete account of this incident.
Please inform accordingly.
Please inform accordingly.
Please arrange these papers in chronological order.
Please compile a list of all the pending cases.
Please hold in abeyance.
Please hold it in abeyance till the return of the Minister.
For suitable action.
For necessary action please.
For futher necessary action please.
For office record please
For remarks.
For remarks.
For suggestions.
For comments.
For examination.
For examination.
For entry.
For diary.
For diary.
For despatch.
For issue.
For compliance
For pursuance.
For pursuance.
For necessary action and report
For quick disposal please.
Keep.
Keep a note.
Keep going.
Keep in custody.
Keep in good condition.
Keep in good order.
Keep in touch with the case.
Keep on reminding from time to time.
Keep pending.


Keep under lock and key.
Keep upto date.
Keep upto date.
Keep with cover.
Keep with numbers.
Keep with numbers.
Keep in serial.
Please keep it handy.
Please keep the issue alive.
Please keep the issue alive.


Please keep it pending until further orders.
Keep him under observation.
Keep him under observation.
Keep him under observation.
Keep these papers in the relevant file.
Please make out a case.
Please prepare a case for additional staff.
Please make temporary arrangements till the creation of additional posts.
Please make a note of it.
Please make a note of it.
Please make a copy of the letter at page23/c.
Please make a reference to the Education Division.
Please make a reference to the Education Division.
Please make over the charge to Mr. ..........
To be included in the subsequent report.
To be reported subsequently.
To be completed by the end of this week.
To be kept permanently.
To be submitted to the competent authority.
To be kept pending.
To be replied immediately.
To be despatched today
Please let me know the date of expiry of the agreement made with the landlord.
Please delete last sentence from the letter.
Do the needful.
Do the needful.
Please explain the circumstances.
Please explore all the possibilities.
Please observe extra ordinary care in this case.
Fair copy please.
Fair copy please.
Please file.
Please file.
Please fill up the prescribed form.
Please give more details of the case.
Immediate action please.
Immediate action please.
Please carry out immediate and thorough check.
Immediate compliance please.
Please reply immediately.
Please implement the orders of the Secretary immediately.
Please arrange all the papers in proper sequence.
The staff needs to be cautioned against late coming.
Please take necessary action in this regard.
I think the previous decision cannot be applied in this case because change of circumstances.
Please hold in abeyance.
Please hold the file in abeyance till the receipt of the remaining information.
Deficiency for one year in his qualifying service for pension is hereby condoned on compassionate grounds.
Please carry out corrections in the draft.
Please carry out corrections in the draft.
Please indicate the corrections.
Please indicate the corrections.
Please fix the responsibility for the loss to Government.
Please circulate for general information.
Please propose further line of action.
Please take appropriate action.
Approval of appropriate authority may be obtained.
The responsibilty for the delay in issue of orders be assessed.
Delay calls for an inquiry for the assessment of responsibility.
Please attend to this matter at your earliest  convenience.
Please include all current cases in the statement.
Please contact him immediately on receipt of this letter.
Please discuss immediately.
Please discuss immediately.
Please finalise this  matter in consultation with S.O.(General).
Please finalise this  matter in consultation with S.O.(General).
Please finalise this  matter in consultation with S.O.(General).
Please finalise this  matter in consultation with S.O.(General).
Inordinate delay in urgent cases cannot be ignored.
Please be careful in future.
Issue today.
Issue today.
Issue as amended.
Issue as amended.
Issue the reminder urgently.
Issue the reminder urgently.
Please record justification for delayed action.
Please decide the matter with mutual consent.
Please observe the relevant rules.
Please observe the relevant rules.
Please open the file on this subject and submit it to me as soon as possible.
Permit him to go.
Please place it at his disposal.
Please circulate.
Please circulate.
Please comment.
Please comment.
Please comment.
Please confirm the above presumption.
Please chalk out a definite line of action in this regard.
Please chalk out a definite line of action in this regard.
Please arrange these results in order of merit۔
Please incorporate it in the report.
Please examine the implications of the case.
Please examine all the aspects of the case meticulously.
I have modified the draft.
Please type it out.
I have slightly modified the draft.
I have redrafted the letter.
I have redrafted the letter.
I have partially modified the draft.
Please make fair copy.
I have revised the draft completely.
I have revised the draft completely.
Please revise the draft in the light of our discussion.
Please revise the last para of the draft, as discussed.
Please deal with this case.
Please implement the decisions without delay.
Please delete para  6 in retyping.
Draft reply on the lines proposed above may be put up.
Draft reply on the lines suggested above may be put up.
Letter may now be issued.
No need for secrecy.
No conclusion can be drawn from the incomplete note.
Please discuss.
No need to take it up at this stage.
Secretary need not be troubled in this case.
Place it on the file.
Please place a copy of this letter in File No.  .........
The letter placed below may be substituted for  the  letter of the same number and date.
Please obtain his consent in writing.
Please continue the old practice.
Please continue the old practice.
Please curtail the list as discussed.
Please obtain written permission before leaving the station.
Please close this case.
Please examine it and point out important points.
I fear the rule has been misapplied.
Please re-examine it in the light of my comments at the margin.
Section Officer(Admn.)
Tel: ...................      
Mr. .....................
Naib Qasid,
Cabinet Division, Islamabad.
Demi Official Letter














(My dear ..................)
(Dear Mr/ Madam ...............)
(Yours sincerely)



First  Sentence in D.O. Letter.
Please refer to your d.o. letter No. .......... regarding.......
I am enclosing herewith a copy of my previous letter No. ......... dated......... addressed to you.
 Would you kindly refer to the marginally noted correspondence (copies thereof are enclosed for ready reference) and dozens of reminders with regard to .....
Kindly refer to your d.o. letter No. ................ dated .................. addressed to Joint Secretary (Admn) of this Ministry.
You will kindly recall that ...........
please refer to the correspondence resting with this Division's office Memorandum No. ........ dated ...........  and subsequent reminders of even numbers dated ..........and ………………regarding...........
Will you please refer to your d.o. letter No. ................ dated ............ regarding .......?
In continuation of this office letter No.................... dated ....................., it is stated that .........
In response to your letter No. ....................... dated ............, it is pointed out that ........
Please refer to your letter No. ............. dated .............. addressed to Secretary Education Division ........ on the subject noted above. It is stated that ......
Please refer to your letter cited above and intimate the latest position regarding .........
Please refer to your letter cited above and intimate the latest position regarding .........
I shall be glad to be informed that ...........
With reference to your d.o. letter No. ......... dated .......... addressed to Secretary, Election Commission of Pakistan, you will kindly recall that ........
Please refer to the enclosed letter dated ....................... along with
Its enclosures received from the Cabinet Secretary regarding ......
Kindly refer to our letter of ..........., of which I enclose a copy in case you did not receive it earlier.
Kindly refer to the instructions contained in paras No. 2 to 4 of this Division's O.M. No. ........... dated ........... on the subject noted above ........
Please refer to para 4 of the Finance Division's O.M. No..................  dated .......... circulated under this  office endorsement No.......... dated ....... regarding ........
This refers to your frequent inquiries regarding prescribed  duties of assistants in the Federal Secretariat.
Please refer to the enclosed letter dated …………………… (raceived on ………………) alongwith its enclosures received from M/S …………………………………… for the refund of security.
I am enclosing herewith a copy of my letter No. …………………… dated ……………… addressed to you.
I am enclosing herewith a copy of my letter No. …………………… dated ……………… addressed to you.
Please refer to the enclosed instructions issued by the Cabinet Division regarding level of the officer who signs the communication addressed to the Prime Minister's Secretariat (Public).
Specimen of Demi Official Letter (English - Urdu)
Specimen of Demi Official Letter
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
(CABINET SECRETARIAT)
CABINET DIVISION
No. 10/2/85-NLA
Rawalpindi, the 26th February, 1985
Khalid Umer Farooqi
Additional Secretary,
Additional Secretary,
Tele. 632219
Subject: Introduction of Urdu as the Official Language.
My dear
Kindly refer to the Presidential Directive No. 228 of 1984 on the subject noted above.
In this connection, I would like to state that about 1800 officers of various Ministries/Divisions have by now completed Daftri Urdu Course being conducted by the Allama Iqbal Open University, Besides, the first course in Urdu shorthand/typing would conclude by the end of April, 1985.
It appears to be necessary that the expertise and technical skill acquired by the trained officers/officials should not only be retained but it should also be improved.
Following instructions are accordingly issued for compliance in view of the objective indicated above:-
(1) Officers should dispose a part of their official work in Urdu so that stenographers/typists who have received training in Urdu shorthand and typing continue their practice and improve their recently acquired skill.
Every officer is expected to assess as to how much work he can do in Urdu.
The scope of work in Urdu should gradually expand.
(2) Brief noting on files may be done in Urdu to the extent possible.
(3) Correspondence with the various officials in scale (1-4) e.g. Sweeper, Farash, Naib Qasid, Jamadar, Driver etc. may be done in Urdu.
