Introduction to Official Language
(English - Urdu)













































Contents

Noting
Note
Note
Note Sheet
Note Sheet
When a Note is required?
Structure of a Note
Style of a Note
Advantages of Noting
When a Note is not required to be recorded
References in  a Note
Paragraphs in a Note
Signature on a Note
How many officers record note on a file?
How many officers record note on a file?
Additional Note Sheet
Typed Note
Hand-written Note
Noting on a fresh receipt
Sample Sentences in Noting
Orders of higher officers on fresh receipts
Orders of higher officers on fresh files
Queries from higher officers
Present position of the case
Sentences used for submission of files to higher officers
Approval of the higher officers on the file
Drafting
Draft
Three fundamental principles of drafting
Drafting : Important Points of drafting
Technique of good communication writing
Qualities of a good communication
Correspondence
Forms  of Communications
Letter
Introductory phrases and sentences used in official letters
&Specimen of letter (English - Urdu)
Office Memorandum
Introductory phrases and sentences used in Office Memorandum
Specimen of Office Memorandum (English - Urdu)
Memorandum
Introductory phrases and sentences in  Memorandum
Specimen of Memorandum (English - Urdu)
Demi Official Letter
Introductory sentences in D.O. Letter
Specimen of Demi Official Letter (English-Urdu)
Un-Official (U.O.) Note
Introductory Sentences in U.O. Note
Specimen of U.O. Note
Specimen of U.O. Note
Endorsement
Sentences used for endorsement
Specimen of Endorsement
(English - Urdu)
Notification
Sentences used in Notifications
Specimen of Notification (English- Urdu)
Resolution
Sentences used in the Resolution
Specimen of Resolution (English- Urdu)
Press Communique
Press Note
(Press Release)
Heading of the Press Release

Specimen of Press Communique
Press Note (Press Release)
Telegram
Telegram
Teleprinter Message
Classification of the Telegrams
Classification of the Telegrams
Cypher Telegram
Cypher Telegram
Email and Fax Message
Email and Fax Message
Specimen of Telegram
Teleprinter Message
Office Order
Sentences used in the Office Order (Instructions)
Sentences used in Office Order (BS- 1 to 15)
Specimen Sentences used in Office Order (BS - 16 to above)
Specimen of Office Order (English- Urdu)
Chancery Letter
Chancery Letter
Forms of Communcations relating to Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Specimen of Chancery
Letter (English- Urdu)
Diplomatic Note
Note Verbale
Diplomatic compliments at the begining of the Diplomatic Note
Diplomatic compliments at the end of Diplomatic Note
Specimen of Diplomatic Note (English- Urdu)
Demarche
Aide Memoire, Specimen of Aide Memoire
Example of demarche
Text of the Demarche
Forms of communications used between various Federal offices

Miscellaneous sentences, terms and phrases
Sentences used in the contents of communication
Authority to issue the communication
Amendment of communication
Cancellation of communication
Date of effect of the orders
Request for Acknowledgment
Acknowledgement of Receipt
Accessories of communications
Correspondence
Specific words and sentences used in Noting
Salutations
General Labels
Parliamentary Labels
Priority Labels
Security Labels (For classified material)
Security Labels (For classified material)
Receipt, distribution and despatch
DespatchTerms                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Summary-writing
Summary
General Procedure for Summary- writing
Procedure for preparing Summary for the Cabinet
Procedure for preparing Summary for the President
Procedure for preparing Summary for the Prime Minister
Summaries for other purposes
Sentences indicating approval of the Minister Incharge
Sentences used for seeking approval of the Cabinet
Sentences used for seeking approval of the Prime Minister
Sentences used for seeking the approval of the Prime Minister (Establishment Matters)
Sentences used for seeking the orders of the President on the advice of Prime Minister
Components of  the Summary for the Cabinet
Summary Format
Outline of the Summary for the Prime Minister
Specimen (English-Urdu): Summary for the Prime Minister
Specimen of the Cabinet decision
Minutes-writing
Minutes
Importance of Meeting
Agenda
Notice
Importance of Minutes-writing
General principles (Minutes-writing)
Specific principles
(Secretariat Instructions)
(Secretariat Instructions)
Essential steps for minutes-writing
The Order and sequence of minutes- writing
Approval of the Minutes
Despatch of the minutes to the participants
Sentences used in the Notice and Agenda
Last paragraph (Working Paper)
First paragraph 
(Minutes)
Participants of the meeting
Initial remarks by the Chairman
Discussion during meeting
Recommendations
Decisions
Specimen of the minutes (1) (English-Urdu)
Specimen of the minutes (2) (English-Urdu)
Agenda (Urdu Specimen)
Minutes (Urdu Specimen)
Bibliography
Noting
Note
Note



Note Sheet
Note Sheet

When a Note is required?

Structure of a Note


Facts of the Case




Examination of the matter in the light of relevant facts, rules and regulations and precedents 






Points for decision and suggested course of action




Style of a Note
















Advantages of Noting











When a note is not required to be recorded.








References in a Note












Paragraphs in a Note



Signature on a Note




How many officers record note on a file.

Additional Note Sheet.

Hand-Written/ Typed Note.

Noting on a fresh receipt.



Sample Sentences in Noting
Orders of higher officers on fresh receipts/ files.
Please put up
Put up on file
Put up the case.
Put up the file.
Put up for approval.
Put up for consideration




Technique of good Communication writing



Plan of the communication















We are unable to grant your request for two reasons.
The rules provide that .......






Main parts of the communication

Opening



I am in receipt of your letter dated  .............

Thank you for your letter dated ............
Text


Ending







Assuring you that we shall be pleased to receive  this information at your earliest convenience. 

We shall be pleased to receive this information as soon as possible.             
Postscript





Covering Communication۔


Communication of Information










Qulaties of a good communication
Correct
















Complete.








Clear




Concise



Courtesy















I am directed that
I am instructed that
I am to state that
I am to assure you that
I am to add that

"Government have decided that ..........."
Correspondence
Forms of Communication
Letter
Office Memorandum
Memorandum
Demi-Official Letter
Un-Official Note
Endorsement
Notification
Resolution
Press Communique/Press  Note
Telegram/Teleprinter Message
Cypher Telegram
Office Order
Chancery Letter
Diplomatic Note/Note Verbale
Aide Memoire
Letter




















I am directed to

I have the honour to say


Yours Faithfully

Yours truly


Introductory phrases and Sentences used in Official Letters
I am directed to say.
I am directed to state.
I am directed to request.
I am directed to forward.
I am directed to invite your attention to this Division's letter No. ................... dated ................
I am directed to refer.
I am directed to enclose.

I am directed to inform you that.


I am directed to submit.

I have the honour to say that ……
I have the honour to state that ……
I have the honour to request that ……
I have the honour to forward herewith a sealed envelope …………










I have the honour to enclose a detailed report regarding ………………, received from …………
I have the honour to refer to your letter No ………… dated ………… on the above subject and to state that …………
I have the honour to invite your attention to …………
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated .....  addressed to  ......
In excercise of powers conferred vide Ministry of Finance's O.M. No. ............... dated ................, I am  d irected to convey the sanction of the President.
I am directed to invite your attention to Establishment Division's O.M. No. ............... dated ............. on the  above  subject and to say that the Government of Pakistan have further decided as follows.
I am directed to convey the sanction of the President to the  creation of the following temporary posts in the Establishment Division for the period upto ...........
I am directed to invite a reference to clause (b) of paragraph  1of this Ministry's. O.M. No. ............ dated .............and to state that it has been decided that ........ 
I am directed to refer to  this Ministry's letter No. ................  dated ............. on the above subject and to say that the orders contained therein are hereby withdrawn. 
I am directed to say that the President has been pleased to decide that  ..............
In excercise of powers conferred vide Ministry of Finance O.M. No. ............ dated ......... read with that Ministry's O. M. No............. dated ..........., I am directed to convey the sanction of the President  to the grant of .................................. of Rs. ............ (Rupees ......... Only) for the calendar year ...............
I am directed to invite attention to paragraph 1(3) of the Establish- ment Division's letter No. ........... dated ......... on the above subject and to say that ........
I am directed to convey the  sanction of the President to the grant of honorarium equal to their one month's pay to the following members of the staff of the Cabinet Division.
I am directed to convey the sanction of the President of Pakistan to the creation and filling of a temporary post of a Research Officer (BS-17) in the Cabinet Division, Islamabad.
I am directed to convey the sanction of the President of Pakistan to the purchase of books at a total cost not exeeding Rs ....... (Rupees ..... ) only for the training of Section Officers.
I am directed to refer to your telephonic conversation with ........ and forward a copy of our Office Memorandum No. ....... dated ........... on the above subject and to request that this division may please be forwarded the required views, latest by ........
$Specimen of letter (English - Urdu)
Specimen of letter (English)
From Mr.Muhammad Akram
Section Officer,
Cabinet Division, Islamabad.
To The Accountant General Pakistan Revenues, Islamabad.				
(date) .........
No......................... 		        	           
Subject: PURCHASE OF BOOKS.
Dear Sir,
I am directed to convey the sanction of the President of Pakistan to the purchase of books published by National Lanaguae Authority at a total cost not exceeding Rs. 5000/- (Rupees five thousand) only for the use of officers in this Division.
The expenditure involved therein is debitable to the Head "......" which will be met from within the sanctioned budget grant of the Cabinet Division  for the Year ..............
This issues with the concurrence of the Deputy Financial Advisor (Cabinet) vide his U.O. No........... dated .........
Yours Faithfully 
(Muhammad Akram)
Section Officer    
Tel. No. .............    .
Copy to:
Deputy Financial Advisor (Cabinet)


Office Memorandum







Components







Introductory Phrases and Sentences used in Office Memorandum
The undersigned is directed to state that .....
The undersigned is directed to request that ...
The undersigned is directed to forward herewith ...........
The undersigned is directed to say that ............
he undersigned is directed to say that ............
The undersigned is directed to refer to the Defence Division's  Office Memorandum No. ........ dated ........... on the subject noted above and to state that .........
The undersigned is directed to enclose a copy of the  contract for necessary action.
The undersigned is directed to refer to the Education Division's  O.M.No. ........... dated........... on the above subject and to confirm the presumption made therein.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Cabinet Division's O.M. No........ dated .......  and to say that the documents mentioned therein appear to have not been received alongwith the above referred O.M.
The undersigned is directed to refer to the Women Division's O.M. No. ....... dated ....... on the above subject and to state that.
With reference to the Management Services Division's Office Memorandum No. ....... dated ........., on the subject cited above, the undersigned is directed to say that ....
With reference to correspondence ending with this Divison's Office Memorandum NO. ................ dated ............ ,the undersigned is directed  to state.
With reference to correspondence resting with Education Division's d.o. letter No. ..................... dated ......................, the undersigned   is directed  to  state that .......
With reference to correspondence resting with Education Division's d.o. letter No. ..................... dated ......................, the undersigned   is directed  to  state that .......
The undersigned is directed to refer to this Division's O.M. No. ...... dated ...... and of even number dated ..... on the above subject and to say that it has been decided that ....
The undersigned is directed to invite reference to this Ministry's O.M. No........ dated....... on the subject mentioned above and to say that ........
The undersigned is directed to refer to this Division's O.M. No. ........ dated ...... on the subject mentioned above and to say that the position has been reviewed further.
The undersigned is directed to refer to the schedule to this Ministry's Office Memorandom No. ..... dated ..... on the subject noted above and to convey the following further decisions.
The undersigned is directed to refer to para  1of this Ministry's O.M. No. ....... dated ..... and subsequent amendment of even number dated ..... on the subject noted above and to say that ......
The undersigned is directed to say that it has been decided that the orders issued in this Division's O.M. No. ..... dated....... read with O.M. of the same number dated .... regarding .....
The undersigned is directed to invite a reference to this Ministry's O.M. No. ...... dated ..... and to say that a doubt arose whether these orders were still  operative after the issue of Appendix No. ........ to Fundamental and Supplementary Rules, Vol-II.
The undersigned is directed to invite a reference to the orders issued in this Ministry's O.M. No. ............. dated ............. and to say  that .......
The undersigned is directed to invite a reference to this Minsistry's Office Memorandum of even number dated ..... on the above subject and to say that the words "........" shall be deleted therefrom.
The undersigned is directed to say that the President is pleased to order that the following amendments shall be made in Appendix No....... to the Fundamental and Supplementary Rules, Volume-II
In continuation of this Ministry's O.M. No. ....... dated ...... on the above subject, the undersigned is directed to calrify that ........
The undersigned is directed to state that it has been decided that the following shall, with effect from the date of issue of these orders, be added at the end of paragraph 1, of this Division's O.M. NO. ....... dated..... on the above subject.
The undersigned is directed to say that it has been brought to the notice of this Division that inspite of the instructions issued in this Division's O.M. No. ......... dated........ and No....... dated ...... on the subject ..........
The undersigned is directed to say that it has been  decided that the rules regarding ..... shall be revised to the extent indicated in the following paragraphas.
The undersigned is directed to say that references have  been received in this Division enquiring whether or not the orders contained in this Division's O.M. No. ....... dated ..... as modified by O. M. of even number dated ...... are also applicable to the employees of the autonomous bodies under Federal Government.
In continuation of the Establishment Secretary's d.o. letter  No. ......... dated ................, the undersigned is directed to request that the following information, in the enclosed statements, be furnished to Establishment Division urgently.
In continuation of Establishment Division's Office Memorandum of even number dated ..... the undersigned is directed to say that in addition to the information called for therein, the following information may also please be furnished.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Establishment Division's Office Memorandum No......... dated ...... on the above subject and to make the following clarification.
With reference to the Establishment Division's Office Memorandum No.……………… dated ……………………, the undersigned is directed to clarify that for the purpose of making curent charge arrangement, it is not necessary to insist on completion of the length of service as prescribed for promotion.
In supersession of Cabinet Division's OM No. …………………… dated……………… and all other instructions issued on the subject from time to time, the undersigned is directed to state that the Government of Pakistan has made the following procedure for acceptance and disposal of gifts received by government/public functionaries.
The undersigned is directed to state that the proforma for obtaining information from officers/ officials for permission in regard to acquisition/ disposal/construction of movable/immovable property has been received in order to make it elaborate.
Specimen of Office Memorandum (English - Urdu)
Specimen of Office Memorandum (English)
Government of Pakistan
Cabinet Secretariat
(O & M DIVISION)
Public Administration Research Centre
No.11/2/81-Manuals
Islamabad. the 15th August; 1981
Office Memorandum
Subject: Institutional arrangements for more effective inspection and supervision of the Working of Secretariat and Attached Departments/Sub-ordinate offices
The undersigned is directed to enclose an extract (annexure) from the recommendations made by the Secretaries Sub-Committee on Simplification of Forms and Procedure and to state that the Cabinet has taken the following decisions:-
All Secretaries incharge of Ministries/Divisions should be required to ensure strict observance of instructions about inspection as embodied in the Secretariat Instructions.
Joint Secretary (Admn.) in each Ministry/ Division should be made responsible for this".
The proformae for inspection should be simplified so as to include only selected items to be covered by each inspecting officer.
The reponsibility for inspection and supervision at different levels should be very clear and precise".
The Ministries/Divisions are requested kindly to take necessary action to implement the above decisions of the Cabinet under intimation to this Division.
Regarding inspections in the Federal Secretariat as laid down in para 53 of the Secretariat Instructions, it is clarified that it is no longer necessary to send copies of inspection reports to the President's Representative on Administrative Inspection as that organisation has since been abolished.
(M.J.R.Khan)
Director General 
All Ministries/ Divisions.
(Joint Secretaries Incharge of Admn.)
Rawalpindi/ Islamabad/ Karachi.
Copy  for information and necessary action. to:-
The Chief Secretary,
Government of Punjab, Lahore
The Chief Secretary,
Government of Sindh, Karachi.
The Chief Secretary,
Government of NWFP*, Peshawar
The Chief Secretary,
Government of Balochistan, Quetta.
(M.J.R.Khan)
Director General 
Khyber Pakhtoon khaw

Annexure
Recommendations made by the subcommitee
Item. No. 5
The Sub-Committee considered this issue and felt that detailed instructions for carrying out regular and systematic inspections by Deputy Secretary and Joint Secretary already existed in the Secretariat Instructions.
Similar instructions to carry out inspections in Attached Departments were circulated by the Establishment Division to all Ministries/Divisions.
It was, however, noted that in actual practice inspections were not carried out at regular intervals.
Views expressed by two Provincial Governments also confirmed that inspections were not being regularly carried out in various organizations in the Provinces.
This was primarily due to the reason that most of the time of the officers responsible for carrying out inspections was being consumed daily in solving matters like enforcing the price level of essential commodities, protocol, checking of vehicles etc.
In certain cases, the Senior Officers who did not find time for inspection, deputed their subordinates to carry out inspection on their behalf.
Moreover, the multiplicity of institutional arrangements to carry inspection e.g., Governor's Inspection Team, the Provincial Vigilance Commission, Divisional Vigilance Committee, and District Vigilance Committee etc., may create confusion with consequential blurring of the responsibility of each institution.
The Committee was also informed of the cumbersome procedure for inspection, which usually render inspections more difficult and time consuming.
After discussion, the Sub-Committee decided to make the following recommendations:-
(i) All Secretaries incharge of the Ministries/Divisions, should be requested to ensure that instructions about inspection, as embodied in the Secretariat Instructions were strictly followed.
For this purpose the Joint Secretary (Admn.) in each Ministry/ Division should be made responsible to ensure compliance of the provisions of the Secretariat Instructions.
(ii) The need to reduce the number of inspecting agencies to make the system more effective and economical may be considered.
(iii) The proformae for inspection should be simplified so as to include only selected items to be inspected by each inspecting officer.
(iv) The line and sphere of responsibility for inspection and supervision should be very clear and precise.
Specimen of Office Memorandum
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
FINANCE DIVISION
(date)
No. ...................... 	                                          
Islamabad, .......................
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
Subject: Revision of Leave Rules for Civil Servants.
The undersigned is directed to refer to para 1 1of this Division's Office Memorandum No. ................, dated.................... on the subject mentioned above and to clarify that in case a civil servant on leave preparatory to retirement dies before completing 18 0days of such leave, his family shall be entitled to lump-sum payment equal to the period falling short of 18 0
(Muhammad Ishaque)
Section Officer
Tele........................
All Ministries/Divisions
Islamabad/Rawalpindi

Memorandum















Introductory phrases and Sentences in Memorandum
With reference to his representation dated .............,. Mr. ............... is informed that.........
With reference to his application dated .........., Mr. ............ is offered a temporary post of ............ in this Ministry on the following terms and conditions.
Whereas Mr. .............. Section Officer, ............. Division, Islamabad is alleged to have been found guilty of the following offences.
Reference Cabinet Division's Memorandum No..................... dated.............. on the above subject.
Specimen of Memorandum (English - Urdu)
Specimen of  Memorandum (English)
Government of Pakistan
Cabinet Division
No. 3-5/90-Admn.
Islamabad
MEMORANDUM
Reference to this Division's Memorandum of even number dated .............
Mr. ............. Naib Qasid, was directed to reply within 3-days on account of availing leave without any intimation.
Mr. ............... has not replied to the above memorandum which is under rule is a misconduct. 
Mr. ................. Naib Qasid is, therefore, again directed to explain the reason of his irresponsible attitude within 3-days of the receipt of this memorandum.
He should note that if he does not comply with the Government Orders, severe disciplinary action under the Government Servants (Efficiency and Discipline) Rules, 1973 will be taken against him.
(Muhammad Khalid)  
.
.
