Submitted as per schedule at Flag 'A'.
Submitted as set forth below.
Submitted for information please.
Submitted for discussion with the Secretary
Submitted for consultation with the Financial Adviser.
Submitted the relevant file as desired. 
Submitted the case as directed.
Submitted for reconsideration please.
Submitted for counter signature please.
Submitted with previous papers.
Submitted with previous file please.
Submitted with linked file please.
Submitted with relevant record please.
Submitted for the approval of the competent authority.
Submitted for approval as the Chairman of the Committee.
Submitted for approval of the Secretary.
The relevant file is submitted please.
The file is submitted for reconsideration.
The file is resubmitted for consideration.
The file is resubmitted as directed.
The file is resubmitted as desired.
The file is resubmitted as verbally directed by the Joint Secretary.
The file is resubmitted after issuing the letter as desired.
The file is resubmitted after adding necessary papers to it.
The draft is submitted for approval please.
Draft for approval is submitted please.
The amended draft is submitted please.
The amended draft is submitted for approval.
The revised draft is submitted please.
The draft letter as modified by the Deputy Secretary is submitted for approval.
The re-typed draft is submitted please.
Draft is added for approval.
Previous papers have been added.
Draft sanction letter is submitted for approval.
Draft d.o. letter is submitted for approval.
Draft Memorandum is submitted for approval.
Draft Office Memorandum is submitted for approval.
Draft U.O. Note is sumitted for approval.
Draft Office Order is submitted for approval.
Draft Notification is submitted for approval.
Draft Press Release is submitted for approval.
Draft Press Release is submitted for approval.
Draft Circular Letter is submitted for approval.
Draft Circular Letter is submitted for approval.
Draft Summary for the President is submitted for approval.
Revised draft of the Summary for the Prime Minister is submitted for approval.
Draft Brief is submitted for approval.
Draft tender is submitted for approval.
Draft Show Cause Notice is submitted for approval.
Draft Charge Sheet is submitted for approval.
Draft Charge Sheet is submitted for approval.
Draft Report is submitted for approval.
Draft minutes of the meeting are submitted for approval.
Draft appointment letter is submitted for approval.
Draft Resolution is submitted for approval
Draft Ordinance is submitted for approval.
Draft Ordinance is submitted for approval.
Draft Act is submitted for approval.
Draft contract is submitted for approval.
If agreed, we may issue the letter placed below.
If approved, we may proceed further in this regard.
No previous reference is forthcoming.
The file is resubmitted for orders.
May kindly see for approval.
Assent orders of the President have been conveyed to all concerned.
Assent orders of the President have been conveyed to all concerned.
Submitted for kind information.
The Fresh Receipt is submitted at dak stage.
The Fresh Receipt is self explanatory and needs no comments.
Submitted for orders.
The petitioner has given his consent in writing for withdrawing the complaint. 
We may have no objection.
Submitted for orders.
The  draft condolence letter is submitted for approval.
The consolidated report is submitted for perusal.
Daily Progress Report is submitted for perusal.
Draft is added for approval.
Facts of the case are as follows.
In compliance with the Secretary's instructions at para 55/N above, the required report is submitted at 'A'.
In pursuance of the Additional Secretary's orders at para 6/N above, the required statement has been prepared and is submitted for his perusal.
Interim information is submitted please.
Matters in dispute are as follows.
In this case, matters of interest for us are as under.
In this regard, matters on which opinion is requested are as follows.
Submitted the file for necessary instructions.
Needful has been done.
The file is resubmitted for necessary orders.
Orders are solicited.
Points for discussion and orders are as follows.
Prior approval of the competent authority i.e. Cabinet Secretary is required in this case.
The file is resubmitted please.
Prior concurrence of the Information Division has now  been received.
The consolidated views received are therefore submitted for information and further orders.
Question at issue has been discussed below.
A self-contained note on the subject is submitted please.
A self-contained note on the subject is submitted please.
Brief reasons of delay are given below.

Brief Summary of the case is submitted please at 'A' below.
Delay in submission of the case is regretted please.
The case could not be submitted earlier due to non availability of the previous papers.
Delay is,  however, regretted.
It is regretted that the case could not be submitted earlier.
It is proposed that we may reconsider this case.
It is proposed that we may close this case now.
It is proposed that we may pend this case till the receipt of the forth coming report.
It is proposed that we may pend the consideration of this case for the time being.
It is proposed that we may consult Law Division in this regard.
The views received from the Law Division may kindly be seen at Flag 'A'.
Despite repeated reminders, no reply has been received from the Defence Division yet.
We may now take up this case at Secretary's level.
Defence Division have forwarded concrete proposals in  this regard.
We may now prepare the draft Summary for  the Prime Minister.
We may request the Finance Division to reconsider this case.
D.F.A. is submitted please.
Finance Division have agreed to our proposal.Draft sanction letter is accordingly submitted please.
Views of the Finance Division regarding Medical Rules of the National Language Promotion Department have been received.
The Section Officer concerned in the Establishment Division has been reminded on telephone to expedite their reply.
 As soon as their views are received, the matter would be submitted for the approval of the competent authority.
Views of the Finance and Establishment Divisions regarding Medical Rules of the National Language Promotion Department have now been received.
They have proposed a number of amendments. 
A comparative statement indicating the rules and the proposed amendments has been prepared and is submitted for perusal.
The draft Service Rules prepared in consultation with the Section Officer (Admn.), are submitted for approval.
As desired, I have discussed this matter with Section Officer (Accounts). 
He has agreed to approach the AGPR in this regard.
After incorporating the propsals of the Finance Division in the contract, the draft is submitted for approval.
The Chairman of the Cabinet Committee has approved the minutes of the meeting. We may now send them to  the participants.
Draft letter is submitted please.
Action on para 3 of the letter recieved from Education Division is required to be taken by us.
I have opened a file on the subject.
The implementation report in this regard would be submitted in due course.
Progress  Report  in respect of paras 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the President's Directive is submitted for information.
Implementation Report on  para 3 of the Prime Minister's Directive is still awaited.
We may remind the agency concerned as per draft placed below.
The papers have been checked and found correct.
May kindly be signed.
The case has been examined in this section. 
The comments in this regard are as follows.
The comments in this regard are as follows.
The store has been inspected.
No item was found missing.
Submitted for information please.
As directed, investigations are being carried out in this case.
In this connection a comprehensive report would be submitted in due course.
Para-wise comments on the audit observations have been prepared  in the form of a statement placed below.
This may kindly be seen before we initiate further necessary action in this regard.
Our comments on the proposals received  from Education Division  are given below at seriatim.
We may agree to the proposed arrangement and convey our consent as per draft placed below.
In order to implement the policy in this regard, it is proposed that  following instructions may kindly be issued.
Keeping in view the latest development of the case, following proposals are submitted for consideration.
As pointed out by the Deputy Secretary, the discrepency in the  statement has been removed.
The file is resubmitted for perusal please.
Views of the Communications Division, Information, Broadcasting Division and  Science & Technology Division have been received so far.
Views of the Provincial Governments are still awiated.
They have been reminded to send their replies immediately.
Submitted for  information please.
Views of all the agencies concerened except the Ministry of  Education have been received.
The Ministry concerned is being reminded.
Submited for information please.
As desired in para 39/N above, the officer concerned (Mr. ABC,  Section Officer) in the Ministry of Finance has been contacted on telephone, today.
He has informed the undersigned that the file on this subject has already been submitted to the Finance Secretary for orders.
He has informed the undersigned that the file on this subject has already been submitted to the Finance Secretary for orders.
The Government of Punjab has informed that the views from all the provincial departments have not been received.
As soon as these are received, the case would be submitted to the Chief Secretary for orders.
All the replies have been received.
These are being consolidated.
The draft summary would be submitted by  next Saturday.
The draft summary would be submitted by  next Saturday.
Delay in submission of the file is regretted.
The required file is not available please.
Submitted for further orders please.
It is for orders that .................
Instructions are solicited in this regard.
Orders of the competent authority are solicited in this case.
The copies were examined and found correct.
Submitted for signature.
Draft may be approved.
Draft is added for approval.
Submitted for onward transmission to Deputy Secretary (Admn.).
Spoken.
As directed, another draft has been attempted and is placed below for approval.
Submitted as FR.
The file on this subject is already under submission.
Orders at para 89/N refer.
The requisite brief is submitted  please.
As directed in para 16/N ante, the plan of action has  been prepared and is placed below for consideration.
Revised.
May be signed.
Secretary may like to see the outline given above for approval.
Orders may please be given on action proposed in para 8/N above.
The case is now submitted for orders of the Additional Secretary.
Approval is solicited to initiate the actions mentioned  above.
Spoken.
The Additional Secretary enquired about the availability of funds to implement the proposal.
Attention in this connection is invited to para 3/N above.
The funds  would, however, be available from next financial year.

Notes above from para 25/N onwards refer.
Orders on the programme submitted above are solicited.
May be approved as amended.
In the light of the discussions took place in the meeting, orders on the programme already submitted in para 18/N ante, are solicited.
The file is accordingly resubmitted for orders on various proposals contained in para 6/N above.
May please be seen for discussion with the Secretary
DFA has been revised and is submitted please.
We may discuss this case at your convenience so that an agreed draft corrigendum may be proposed for approval of the Secretary.
My views are as follows.
The views of this Division in the matter are as follows.
Approval of the higher officers on the file
Proposal at para 2 is approved.
Accepted.
Agreed.
Agreed as proposed.
Allowed.
Approved as suggested.
Approved as proposed.
I agree.
I agree with the suggestion.
Signed.
I agree in principle.
Well done.
Approved as proposed at 'A' above.
Countersigned.
Examined and approved at 'A'.
I am happy  that the matter has been finalized with mutual  understanding.
Good. The action is in order.
Approved conditionally.
Approved in amended form.
Approved subject to the provision that.
Seen and approved.
Seen. Thanks.
I generally agree.
However a couple of points in the  proposed Action Plan are not very clear to me and may please be discussed before the Plan is sent for the concurrence of Establishment Division.
As modified. Fair copy signed.
I agree as proposed in para 8/N except that .........
I agree as proposed in para 8/N except that .........
Approved.
We may now implement the scheme quickly.
Approved as amended.
I agree with Additional Secretary.
Well done. A.d.o. letter would be quite in order.
I generally  agree to the programme set out in para 33/N.
We can put the programme into action according to a systematic plan.
Such a plan may please be drawn up, shown to me, and thereafter duly implemented.
We should, at the same time, keep the Ministries/Divisions posted with developments in this regard.
After taking action along the aforesaid  lines, please also discuss  on ............ (Date).
Drafting
Draft





Three principles of drafting







Drafting : Important points



















Summaries for other purposes

(Federal Minister Incharge)
(Minister of State)
(Adviser to the PM)
(Special Assistant to the PM)
(Secretary General)







(Cabinet) 
(National Economic Council)
(Coucil of Common interests)
(Secretaries' Committee)
(Cabinet Committee on National Language)
(Ministerial Committee)
(Islamic Ideology Council)
(Inter-Provincial Conference)
Sentences indicating approval of the Minister Incharge
Minister for Commerce has seen and approved the submission of the summary.
The summary has been seen and approved by the Minister for Religious Affairs.
The Minister for Labour has approved the Summary and authorised its submission to the Cabinet.
Minister of State for Finance has authorised the submission of this summary to the cabinet.
The Summary has the approval of the Minister for Law and Justice.
The Summary is submitted with the concurence of the Minister of State for Environment.
Sentences used for seeking approval of the Cabinet
The proposals at para 7 are submitted for approval of the cabinet.
In the light of the foregoing, the following proposals are submitted for consideration of the Cabinet.
Approval of the Cabinet is solicited to the proposal contained in para 2 above.
Approval of the Cabinet is solicited to the proposal made in para.......... and the Draft Bill at Annex-I
Approval of the Cabinet is solicited for the amendments proposed in para.....above.
The Summary is submitted to the Cabinet for information of the Members of the Cabinet.
Approval, in principle, of the Cabinet is solicited to the suggestions contained in para.....after which Law and Justice Division would be requested to draft the legislation.
Sentences used for seeking approval of the Prime Minister
The Prime Minister's approval is solicited to the proposal contained at para ......above.
Approval of the Prime Minister is solicited to the proposal made in the para........above.
The Prime Minister may kindly approve the proposal contained in para ........ above.
The proposal in para.......of the Summary is submitted for consideration and orders of the Prime Minister.
The Prime Minister is requested to approve the proposal submitted in para......above.
The Prime Minister may be pleased to agree with the recommen-dations proposed in para.......above.
The Prime Minister may like to approve the proposal at para .........above.
The Prime Minister may kindly approve the proposal made in the Summary at para.....above.
Sentences used for seeking the approval of the Prime Minister (Establishment Matters)
The Prime Minister may kindly select one of the officer listed above for appointment as..........., under section 1 0of the Civil Servants Act, 1973.
In view of the position explained above, the Prime Minister may kindly approve the appointment of .........as................
The Prime Minister is requested to kindly select one of the officers listed above for appointment as.........
The Prime Minister is requested to kindly nominate the Chairman of ......... from the following panel of experts.
The Prime Minister may kindly approve promotion of Mr.......................... as................. with  immediate effect.
Orders of the Prime Minister are solicited on the recommendation contained in para  5above.
The Prime Minister may kindly approve extension in the term of appoint- ment  of  Mr............as...........from...........to...........
The Prime Minister may kindly approve appointment of Mr............ as............., in his own pay scale plus allowance and perquisites of the post, on deputation.
In the light of position explained above, the Prime Minister may not agree to the proposal contained at para........above (For other Division's proposal).
Sentences used for seeking the orders of the President on the advice of the  Prime Minister 
The Prime MInister is requested to advise the President in terms of Serial No. 3of schedule V-B to the Rules of Business, 1973 to approve the proposal contained in para  3 above alongwith the draft notification at annexure I in exercise of powers confered by Article  9 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Components of the summary for the Cabinet (Summary Format)
SECRET
Copy No.......
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of ...............
(...............Division)
Summary For The Cabinet
Subject: ..............................
1. Relevant facts of the case
2. Points for decision
3. Proposal of the Ministry/Division
4. The Ministries of ..........have been consulted.
They have agreed to the proposal (If any ministry/Division has expressed different views, their point of view must be clearly stated).
5. Minister for .............has seen and authorised submission of this summary to the Cabinet.
The Prime Minister, in his capacity as the Minister Incharge of the Ministry of .........has seen and authorised submission of the summary to the cabinet.
6. Approval of the Cabinet is solicited to the proposal stated in para....... above.
(Name)
Secretary/ Additional Secretary Incharge
Place:
Date:
Outline of the summary for the Prime Minister
Government of Pakistan
Cabinet Secretariat
(Establishment Division)
Summary For The Prime Minister
Subject: ..................................
Text of the summary ....................
The Minister for the Establishment has seen and approved the summary.
Approval of the Prime Minister is solicited on para.........of the summary.
Secretary,Establishment Division
Through:
Mininstry of Foreign Affairs (Mr.........Serectary) Islamabad.
Finance Division (Mr........Secretary) Islamabad.
Cabinet Division (Mr......Secretary) Islamabad.
Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, PM's Secretariat (Public)
Establishment Division's UO No........dt..........Islamabad.
Specimen (English-Urdu): Summary for the Prime Minister
Government of Pakistan
Cabinet Secretariat
Establishment Division
Summary For The Prime Minister
Subject: Posting of an officer (BPS-21) as Managing Director, Printing Corporation of Pakistan, Islamabad.
Mr......................., an officer of the Secretariat Group (BPS-21), has been transferred recently from the post of Managing Director, Printing Corporation of Pakistan, Islamabad.
2. To fill the resultant vacacy, the Establishment Divsion propose the following panel of officers:-
3. All the above officers fulfil the requirements of service, experience and aptitude.
The following are, however, strongly recommended:-
4. Orders of the Prime Minister are solicited on the recommendation contained in para 3 above.
Copies of ICP Charts of the above officers and their synopsis are enclosed
Encl:(1) Six ICP Charts
(2) Six Synopsis
Establishment Secretary
Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Prime Minister's Secretariat (Pub), Islamabad.
Estab.Divn.U.O.No ................................ date ..........................
Specimen of the Cabinet decision
Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) has recently conducted surveys  and water testing of water sources in the country. 
The results indicated widespread chemical and bacteriological contamination in water storage reservoirs, rivers etc.
Analysis of significant samples of branded bottled water also  revealed chemicals and bacteriological contamination.
Decision:
The Cabinet, while considering the matter in its meeting held on 21-09-2005, has directed as follows:
"A compaign at all tiers of government be launched to promote the use of boiled water by different segments of society".
Source: Pakistan Govt.Pk- The official web Gateway to the Government of Pakistan
Minutes-writing
Minutes
Importance of Meeting

Agenda

Notice
Importance of Minutes-writing







General principles (Minutes-writing)










Specific principles (Secretariat Instructions)






Essential steps for minutes-writing



















The Order and sequence of minutes- writing










Approval of the Minutes

Despatch of the minutes to the participants


Sentences used in the Notice and Agenda
A meeting of the ................................ will be held on ................(date) at ................(time) in the Committee Room of the ................(office) at ................(venue), under the Chairmanship of................
A meeting of the.............................................. will be held on................(date) at ................(time) in the Conference Room of the .......................(office) at .......................................(Venue)
Mr.................,................, will preside over the meeting.
The Agenda and Working Paper of the meeting are enclosed.
The Agenda of the meeting is as follows:
The Agenda of the proposed meeting is enclosed.
The Agenda of the meeting is forwarded herewith
The Working Paper of the meeting will follow
Kindly make it convenient to attend the meeting
You are requested to attend the meeting
Last paragraph (Working Paper)
The matter is placed before the Secretaries Committee for consideration
The proposals given in Para................above are submitted for consideration of the committee.
First paragraph (Minutes)
 A meeting of the Secretaries Committee was held on ........ at 10.00 am in the Establishment Division under the Chairmanship of the Establishment Secretary.
A meeting was held on ................ at 11.00 am in the Conference Room of the Finance Division Islamabad.
Secretary, Finance Division presided over the meeting.
The 8th annual meeting of the Advisory Committee of the National Documentation Centre was held on ............. at ......... .
Mr. Zahur Azar, former Cabinet Secretary and Chairman of the Federal Public Service Commission presided over the meeting.
Participants of the meeting
The participants of the meeting included the following:
The meeting was attended by the following
In addition, the Education Secretaries of the four Provincial Governments were also present to assist their Chief Secretaries in the deliberations
Initial remarks by the Chairman
The meeting was formally opened with recitation of  the verses from the Holy Quran by................
In his introductory remarks, the Chairman outlined the various  aspects of the work being done at the National Documentation Centre (NDC) and expressed satisfaction over the progress made so far.
The Chairman, in his opening speech, emphasized that................
The Chairman welcomed the participants and thanked them for sparing time to share their views and ideas about................
In his initial remarks, the Chairman welcomed the participants
Discussion during meeting
The meeting reviewed the implementation of the last year's programme
Other important issues discussed in the meeting included: ................
Other important issues deliberated upon by the Advisory Committee included: ................
The pros and Cons of the following three alternatives given in the Working Paper were considered.
During the discussions, the following points were made
The main points raised during the discussions are as under:
The Committee took note of the position explained in the Working Paper and decided as under:
8The proposals given in the working paper were condidered by the Committee in detail and pros and Cons of these proposals were discussed from various angles
The Establishment Secretary, explaining the background of the Working Paper stated that ................
The Committee reviewed the implementation of the decisions taken at the last meeting
During the discussion, the following points were made:
The above factors have been kept in view while framing the proposals
It was observed that.............
The Chairman suggested that.........
The Chairman stated  that......

During the ensuing discussions,......
It was emphasized that............
The Establishment Secretary explaining the background of the working paper stated that.............
It was stated that.............
Recommendations
After careful considerations of the various factors involved, the Cabinet Committee made the following recommendations
The Cabinet sub-committee held two meetings and presented the following recommendations
The Committee, after due consideration, has submitted the following recommendations
In its last meeting, the Cabinet Committee examined the  recommendations of the National Language Authortity regarding introduction of Urdu as medium of competitive examinations
Decisions
In its last meeting held on............. the Cabinet Committee on the National Language Authority decided to constitute a sub-committee under the Chairmanship of the Establishment Secretary to look into the following matters:
The Advisory Committee approved in principle.............
The following decisions were taken in the meeting.
It was decided to approve, in principle, the draft rules
In its meeting held on ............., the Cabinet decided that: .........
In its meeting held on ............., the Cabinet directed as follows:
The following decisions were taken in the meeting
The committee took note of the position explained in the Working Paper and decided as under
It was accordingly agreed that.............
It was also agreed that.............
Specimen of the minutes (1) (English-Urdu)
SECRETARIAT TRAINING INSTITUTE
MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF DEPARTMENTAL PROMOTION COMMITTEE FOR APPOINTMENT BY PROMOTION TO THE VACANT POST OF SUPERINTENDENT (BS-16) AND THE RESULTANT VACANCY OF ASSISTANT INCHARG (BS-15) IN STI, ISLAMABAD.
A meeting of the Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC), comprising the following, was held on 12-1-201 6at 11.0 0a.m. in the office of Director (Admn.), Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad, to consider promotion of eligible officials against leave vacancy of Superintendent (BS-16) and anticipated post of Assistant Incharge (BS-15):
i) Mr.Matloob Hussain Awan, Chairman
Director (Admn.)
ii) Mr. Nadeem Siddiqui, Member
Deputy Director (Admn.)
iii) Mr.Nasir Mahmood, Member
Deputy Director (GS)
2. Consequent upon grant of four years (1461 days) leave on half average pay to Mr. Kaleemullah Khan, one post of Superintendent (BS-16) became vacant.
In terms of Establishment Division's O.M.No. 54/27/53-ME, dated 8-4-1954 as amended vide O.M.No.11/4/6 1- F.II (XV), dated 6-4-1962, printed at Chapter, II, S1.No.129, Estacode Edition 2007 vacancies exceeding two months may be filled under personal orders of the Head of Ministries/ Divisions/ Departments.
Establishment Division's O.M.No.30/2/90-CP-3, dated 18-2-1997 printed at Chapter II, Sl. No.209, Estacode Edition 2007 also provides that an officer recommended for promotion on temporary basis by the CSB/DPC and approved by the competent authority is liable to reversion to lower post in case the higher post is subsequently either abolished or cease to exist or its original incumbent joins back.
However, if a temporarily promoted officer continues working against the highter post without any break and, in the meanwhile, a regular vacancy in the cadre becomes available, no fresh clearance of the CSB/DPC and approval of the competent authority is required for his promotion to higher post on regular basis.
3. The DPC considered following agenda items and offered recommendations against each:-
ITEM NO.1
3. Superintendent (BS-16) one post:  In terms of Rule  2 of Appointment, Promotion and Transfer Rules for Ministerial Staff, the post of Superintendent (BS-16) is to be filled in 100% by promotion.
Rule  3 of the rules ibid provides that Assistant-in- Charge(BS-15) having three years service or Assistant (BS-14) (when no Assistant-in-Charge is availabe/eligible) having five years service may be promoted as Superintendent (BS-16). Mr. Muhammad Zubair, Assitant Incharge (BS-15) was appointed as Assistant on 3-12-199 5and he has more than 2 0years service as Assistant/Assistant Incharge. 
He is the senior most in the cadre and his service record was also found satisfactory.
The DPC, therefore, recommend that Mr. Muhammad Zubair, Assistant Incharge (BS-15) may be promoted as Superintendent (BS-16) with the condition that he will stand reverted to lower post in case the post of Superintendent (BS-16) is abolished or ceased to exist or original incubent joins back.
ITEM NO.2
4. Assistant-in-Charge (BS-15) one post: Consequent upon promotion of Mr. Muhammad Zubair, Assistant Incharge (BS-15) as Superintendent (BS-16), an anticipated vacancy of Assistant-in-Charge (BS-15) is also to be filled in by promotion.
In terms of Rule  2 of Appointment, Promotion and Transfer Rules for Ministerial Staff, the post of Assistant-in-Charge (BS-15) is to be filled in 100% by promotion.
Rule 3 of the rules ibid provides that Assistant (BS-14) having three years service may be promoted as Assistant-in-Charge (BS-15).
MR. Muhammad Haroon Rashied, being senior most Assistant (BS-14), was condidered for promotion as Assistant Incharge (BS-15).
He has 12 years qualifying service as Assistant and his service record was also found satisfactory.
He fulfills critreria for promotion to the higher post. 
The DPC, therefore, recommends that Mr. Muhammad Haroon Rashied, Assistant (BS-14) may be promoted as Assistant Incharge (BS-15) with the condition that he will stand reverted to lower post in case the post of Assistant Incharge (BS-15) abolished or ceased to exist or original incumbent joins back.
(Nadeem Siddiqui)
Deputy Director (Admn)/Member
(Nasir Mahmood)
Deputy Director (GS)/Member
(Matloob Hussain Awan)
Director (Admn)/Chairman
Specimen (2) of the Minutes
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
ESTABLISHMENT DIVISION
SECRETARIAT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Subject: MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF PURCHASE COMMITTEE HELD ON 28-9-2015
Rates for supply of stationery items and paper(s) during financial year 2015-1 6were invited third time through RE-TENDER floated on websites of Establishment Division, STI and PPRA.
Last date of receipt of bids was fixed as 28-9-201 5at 11.0 0a.m.
2. Meeting of Purchase Committee, comprising the following, was held on 28-9-201 5at 11.3 0a.m. for opening the bids received till the prescribed time:-
a. Mr.Matloob Hussain Awan Chairman
Director (Admn)
b. Mr. Safdar Shah Member
Deputy Director (FR)
c. Mr.Nasir MahmoodMember
Deputy Director (Gen)
3. The followging two firms participated in the bidding process:-
a. M/S  Prime Traders, Islamabad.
b. M/S  Supreme Traders, Islamabad.
4. Comparative statements showing rates offered by the respective firms for supply of stationery items and papers are at Annex-I and Annex-II respectively. 
Accumulate impact on the basis of rates received is worked out as under:-
S.No.
Name of Firm
Accumulative Impact (Rs.)
Stationery
Papers


M/S Prime Traders, Islamabad.


5.The Purchase Committee recommends as under:-
(a) Contract for supply of stationery items may be awarded to M/S Prime Traders, Islamabad, being the lowest.
(b) Offer of M/S Supreme Traders, Islamabad for supply of paper being the lowest may be accepted.
(Nasir Mahmood)
Deputy Director(Gen)
Member
(Safdar Shah)
Deputy Director(FR)
Member
(Matloob Hussain Awan)
Director (Admn.)
Chairman
Agenda (Urdu Specimen)













Minutes (Urdu Specimen)




























Governing body
















































































































































Bibliography 
1. Secretariat Instructions, Establishment Division, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of Pakistan,
2. E.A. Franklin, Joint Secretary, Training Hand Book on Correspondence, Establishment Division, Karachi, 1951.
3. E.A. Franklin, Joint Secretary, How not to draft letters to the Public, Central, Organization and Methods Unit, Establishment Division, Karachi, 1953.
4.E.A. Franklin, Joint Secretary, How not to note on Secretariat Files, Central Organization and Methods Unit, Establishment Division, Karachi, 1953.
5.Eltinge Grinnel, Instructor, STI, Training Material on Office Practice and Correspondence, Secretariat Training Institute, Karachi, 1962.
6. Azhar Ahmad, Instructor, STI, Training Material on Secretariat Procedures, Secretariat Training Institute, Karachi, 1962.
7. Abdul Qadir Butt, Deputy Director, STI, Training Material on Forms of Communications, Secretariat Training Institute, Rawalpindi, 1973.
8. Nazeer Muhammad Khan, Deputy Director O & M Division, A Guide to Section Officer's Examination, 1981.
9. Muhammad Ishaq, Deputy Director, STI, Training Material on Noting and Drafting, Secretariat Training Institute, Rawalpindi, 1982.
10. Muhammad Riazur Rehman, Deputy Director, STI, Training Material on Secretariat Instructions and Office Procedure, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad, 1987.
11. Muhammad Rafiq Chohan, Deputy Director, STI, Training Material on Forms of Communications, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad, 1989.
12. Sher Zaman, Dr. Deputy Director, STI, Training Material on Noting and Drafting, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad, 1990.
13. Raziuddin Ahmad, Deputy Director, STI, Training Material on Noting and Drafting, Secretariat Training Institute, 1990.
14. Sibte Hasan Syed, Deputy Director, STI, Training Material on Noting and Drafting, Secretariat Training Institute, 1995.
15. B.A. Qureshi, 20th Century Kitabistan Practical English-Urdu Dictionary.
16. John Sinclair, Editor in Chief, BBC English Dictionary, Harpin Collins Publishers Ltd., 1992.
17. Muhammad Ijaz ghani, Director/ Faculty Member, Reading Material for Secretariat Nothing & Drafting, Secretariat Training Institute, Islamabad.


























